The equity market's been super
optimistic. Earnings have been quite
strong.
>> Investors have never been richer and
more miserable.
>> You're in a high-risisk bull market.
>> The big big issue is positioning. So
positioning overall still is pretty
subdued.
>> Just stay involved and look how your
equities have done.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloombeck
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Monday, looking to build on a
nineweek winning streak. The global AI
trade powering equities to fresh
all-time highs as the White House is
keeping investors on US Iran deal watch.
Former Fed chair Jay Powell has a
warning for the central bank. The Fed is
facing a credibility test.
>> We heard for the first time from
Governor Powell, I can't even say
Governor. I was Governor Chair Powell.
Uh Jerome Powell in his first commentary
since becoming governor talking about
how it would be a real devastation to
the Fed's credibility and independence
if a president were to fire anybody on
the Fed because it would set a precedent
for any future pres uh for any future
president to come in and fire another
Fed official. Is this about Lisa Cook?
Is that what he's waiting for? I mean
people could talk about that. It does
highlight though how fraught this moment
is for them given their dual mandate
very much in conflict with a lot of job
winning from the president. He doesn't
say the president's name, but clearly
this is a message to President Donald
Trump. Quote, "Like many other
institutions, the Fed has been
undergoing a stress test." And now when
it comes to who's going to be picking up
that potential
stress test, it goes on to the incoming
Fed chair, Kevin War.
>> None of this sounds Kevin Walsh. None of
it at all. The noise around the incoming
Fed chair is getting louder and louder,
but ultimately we are only here because
of the ill-advised attacks from the
president on the institution, and
without them, we wouldn't be here. and
the noise would be downed a whole lot
lower for the new Fed chair.
>> I hate this story. I'm not gonna lie.
>> I despise it, too.
>> I hate it because it doesn't leave us
with any insight into into policy. That
is going to be crucial in understanding
the moment that we're in. We are in
economic transformation when it comes to
both the AI situation as well as the
labor market dynamic that's going to be
very much in focus this week. You put
the overlay of Fed independence over it,
it just becomes incredibly complicated
and just an intangible story and you
could feel the market kind of grappling
with that. JP Pal even be getting this
award if it wasn't for the president job
boning him for years. He received an
award for the John F. Kennedy profile
encourage. He only has that because many
perceive what he did was standing up to
the White House with these unauthorized
and your point ill-advised attack.
>> We need to talk about policy and the
prospect of changing policy. The Federal
Reserve of course in focus dropping the
easing bias. Check out the ECB and the
commentary coming from Isabelle
Schnapple. As we wake up this morning,
the risk of deankering inflation
expectations is rising. A more hawkish
member of the ECB. We can no longer look
through this shock. There are many on
the ECB positioning now for a real rate
hike this month in the next few weeks.
>> It's 89% priced in when you look at
market expectations. So, if they didn't
hike rates, it would be a pretty big
shock. You start looking at the economic
outlook for Europe versus the United
States. You can see it's much lower over
in Europe. in the US. Do do the US uh
central bankers have the luxury of doing
the same thing uh or potentially taking
a step back? What is the risk for
runaway inflation? Is it just hinged to
what's happening in the Middle East?
>> They should just sit back and relax. It
will all work out well in the end. The
words of the president overnight. Crude
with a bounce up 4% this morning. WTI at
90, Brent crude at 94 up across the
board up by three percentage points on
Brent crude. If you can get those prices
up for us in the control room, you see
that pick up off a six week low on Brent
and WTI. More strikes as well over the
weekend. We've seen a period of this now
building up over a week.
>> More clashes over the weekend. What do
we hear Friday from the Chevron CEO Mike
Worth? There's actually been more
clashes than have been reported when it
comes to the street of Hermoose.
Remember one week ago, Sunday evening,
Axios had this report that we were
imminent, very close to a deal of a
60-day ceasefire extension. Well, a week
has passed now. The president is saying
that most people know and understand
that is quote much tougher for me to
properly do my job and negotiate when
political hacks keep negatively
chirping. He is leaning into the fact
and insinuating that it has become
harder because individuals are pointing
out that gas prices are going to be
higher and the energy space is going to
become a lot more challenging for him.
>> You have the president, you have Kevin
Hasset coming out and saying the oil
prices are going to be lower. You have
the heads of the major oil companies in
this country saying we could run out of
fuel very shortly. You have Iran saying
whatever they're saying and the market's
left wondering who do we believe and
that has been the scenario that we've
been in for quite a while.
>> AI by the Cosby. Every single morning
you want to check in on the AI trade.
The Cosby South Korea here state side.
That's the first thing I'm looking at.
How is the South Korean equity market
performing? Up 4% overnight up by I
think more than 20% last month and up by
more than 100% so far this year. just an
unbelievable rally so far this year.
>> So, what's the pain trade? It going down
or it going up further? Because right
now, an increasing number of people are
saying it's going up further given the
fact that everyone's saying, okay, 102%
so far this year, that's enough. You can
back it up. It's maybe a little bit
overplayed. We're talking about 1999
type behavior. And other people are
saying, but this is different. You got
to go in. And that ultimately could be
the riskiest trade of all that some
people could see as the pain trade.
>> We'll spend some time on this a little
bit later. So, I saw a story on the
Bloomberg terminal this morning about a
tech fund interested in buying SKH
Highix. And I was sitting here thinking,
you're a tech fund and you don't own SKH
Highix. Like, you've been sitting this
out. There's more still to go. So, I
don't know which side the pain trade is
right now. But certainly, if you haven't
owned that this year, it's been painful.
>> I agree. There are different ways to
look at that because that fund is
actually outperformed. So, you could say
on one hand, oh, they're just chasing
the rally. On the other hand, you could
say they could be the the strong ones or
sort of the bold ones to go in chasing
gains that look implausible uh to really
put on a repeat performance.
>> NASDAQ futures this morning up by 0.2%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Aaron Cannon of Clear Harbor with Wall
Street chasing fresh highs into June.
Sarah CS Cleo Capital as Nvidia jumps
into the PC market and Tulsson lock of
Apollo on how the AI boom could fuel
payroll gains. We begin this out with
tech driving stocks to new all-time
highs. Aaron Cannon of Clear Harbor
Asset Management, writing, "Markets are
behaving as though investors believe
that economic growth and AIdriven
productivity gains are overwhelming
geopolitical concerns." Aaron joins us
now for more. Aaron, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> A market's misbehaving.
>> Good, good question. I mean, I think,
you know, clearly there's a lot of
exuberance on the tech side, Jonathan.
Um, but there's also, you know, the
elephant in the room and we talk about
it almost every day, which is AI. And it
it it sort of transcends both the
economic picture, the earnings picture,
as well as the Fed picture. How is Fed
Chair Worsh going to uh deal with that
elephant? You know, he has the inflation
mandate, he has the employment mandate,
but then he also, I think, suspects that
or at least the market does that
long-term AI will prove to be
disinflationary
that the employment picture could
actually worsen um as as a result of
this AI trend. But on the on the flip
side, we see greater productivity and
greater growth. We we we ultimately
think that that's probably an easing
bias on the part of the Fed and that
this market still has momentum that the
memory component of technology which has
really driven so much of this exuberance
has some lags that maybe memory chips
are more of a disposable concept, a
consumable concept that we can see uh
greater growth that we're not in the
eighth or ninth inning, but but perhaps
we're in the second or third. So it's
it's really a an interesting time. We
have massive bifurcation also in
valuation within the AI tech sector.
>> You think they stick with the easing
bus?
>> I I do. I mean I think Worsh is looking
at both of these things. I think it's
challenging because we have inflationary
pressures in the short term with AI and
so I think Worsh probably will have a
tendency to sort of pause, wait and
observe with his view. I suspect that AI
in the longer term will prove to be
disinflationary. This whole concept of
median inflation adjusted inflation that
he's looking at sort of speaks to this
element.
>> If they maintain their easing bias, my
bias would be to buy stocks and and sell
bonds. What's yours?
>> Yeah, I think you're right, Lisa. And
you know, the stock market trading at 20
and a half 21 and a half times multiple
here in the US uh is not particularly
expensive when you look at the 26%
earnings growth. I mean, I think that
there is a challenge on the part of the
Fed and the Treasury. When you look at
the the steepness of the yield curve and
the general rise in nominal rates, you
have, you know, the long bond at 5%, 10
are almost at 450, twos are at 4%. And
and you have the Fed funds rate at 375.
So, the market's sort of saying, oh, you
know, there's a greater likelihood maybe
that the Fed raises rates here if you
look at two-year Treasury yields rather
than reduces rates. But my sense is that
Worsh is going to probably want to lean
towards the longer term effects of this
AI uh elephant.
>> So this would be counter to a popular
idea which is the reason why you're
saying and pointing out that in markets
you are seeing people price in rate
hikes not necessarily rate cuts which
leaves us with the question what's the
pain trade higher or lower and
ultimately we've seen hedge funds
covering shorts as quickly as they can
the fastest pace in six months. You've
seen people kind of rushing in SK high
suddenly a buy a tech fund. I mean, is
this sort of chasing things higher
because ultimately that is the pain
trade?
>> Well, it sure feels that way when when
your bonuses uh at these hedge funds and
these long only asset management firms
are predicated on uh performance
relative to a given benchmark over a
12-month period that starts, you know,
on Jan 1 and ends December 31st. This is
a challenging time to sort of say, well,
you know, we want to be cautious, we
want to be patient, we want to be
prudent, we're we're focusing on
fundamentals. With that said, the memory
sector, which has driven SK, highix,
Samsung, Micron, you know, they're
trading the mid to high single digits.
Now, I know you can look back and sort
of at previous semiclescycles and say,
well, when they look cheap, that's the
time to sell. When they look expensive,
that's the time to buy because the E is
moving around. But, you know, this may
be a a much more pronounced uh uh period
for the the the AI trade, for the
semiconductor buildout. When you look at
the fact that uh semiconductors are
playing such a substantial role in the
lives of all of us here and people
around the world, you know, to what
extent um is are are is that cycle going
to be longer and perhaps uh the peak of
that cycle could be significantly higher
than in the past. Aaron, I know that oil
prices are under $100 a barrel for both
Brent and WTI, but we had warnings last
week, not from not just from Chevron on
this show, but Exxon also was talking
about inventories reaching dangerously
low levels. They're seeing north of $150
a barrel. Could you keep the easing buys
at the Federal Reserve if we see oil
prices spike?
>> Well, unlike the ECB, our mandate in the
US is is is the employment picture as
well as the price pressure. And I think
history would argue that rising energy
prices haven't been um a triggering
mechanism for raising rates in in the
US. Um and so I I would be surprised if
that ends up uh sort of nudging uh wars
and the entire FOMC to take a much more
hawkish.
>> What if it bleeds through the rest of
the supply chain?
>> Yeah. No, for sure. I mean certainly
consumer confidence is being hit. We saw
the the data last week. the worst in
since mid of 2020. Uh so, you know,
consumers are are on their heels. We
have mortgage rates at 6 and 3/4%. And
and we have, of course, uh gasoline
prices that have risen. I think there's
also another element here, too, where
the consumer has their job, but they're
worried about what's around the corner
with AI. That is altering the behavior
perhaps of the consumer going forward. I
still have my job. the checks are coming
in each month, but what happens next
quarter and next year? And that could
start to negatively impact consumption.
>> I think also would depend on other
variables. I'd be very interested to see
if that happened how certain policy
makers would respond. Would they try and
offset it fiscally? Then I'd really
worry at the central bank or would they
allow it to rip and create the demand
destruction that would ultimately mean
the Federal Reserve could look through
some of this. This middle ground is what
gets people nervous. Matt Lasellia
Deutsche Bank was talking to us last
week about that. this middle ground
where you're sort of muddling through.
Energy is elevated. It's not creating
demand destruction just yet. I'm talking
about the United States here. So,
they're looking at growth that's still
robust driven by AI capex and they're
looking at inflation that's at
multi-year highs. It makes it very
difficult to know what to do in this
moment.
>> Yeah. People find it really annoying
that gas is so expensive and they'll
complain about the fact that it cost 70
$90 to fill up their tanks, but they're
still driving. They haven't cretailed
any of their behavior and that's the
difficult part for the Federal Reserve.
>> Aaron, good to see you. It always is.
Thanks. Thanks, buddy. Thanks for being
here. Aaron Canon of Clear Hab Clear
Harbor Asset Management. Equity futures
right now in the S&P up by a quarter of
1%. We are on a 9week winning streak on
the S&P 500. So what happens if we make
it week 10? I've checked this stat a
million times just to make sure it's
right. If you make it week 10, it's the
longest weekly run we've seen going back
40 plus years in market history. Just
incredible. Have not had a weekly
decline since March. If we make it week
10, as you've pointed out, we'd have to
go back to 1985 for a similar type of
streak. It's only happened a handful of
times in history. Again, this goes to
the anxiety people have. Is this too
good to be true? Especially because it's
driven by a number of stocks, not
necessarily the entire market.
>> Futures up by a quarter of 1% this
morning with an update on stories
worldwide. With your Bloomberg brief,
joining us this morning is Isabelle Lee.
Hey, Isabelle.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump says
talks with Iran will quote work out
well. That's despite clashes between the
two nations near the straight of Hormuz.
The president reportedly requesting
several amendments to the most recent
deal. The European Union is considering
a temporary freeze to the price cap on
Russian oil. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the current price threshold is
around $44 per barrel and is due for
review in July. And SoftBank overtaking
Toyota as Japan's most valuable company.
Shares of Soft Bank climbing 14% in
Tokyo, trading, pushing its market cap
past to past Toyotaas for the first time
in more than two decades. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Isabelle, thank you. More from Isabelle
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, a long road to a deal. I think
Trump is getting what he wants, but this
is not a deal that really ends the war
in a satisfactory way for the United
States. They're still waiting for a
deal. Henry Traved Partners joins us
next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
Massive week for jobs data. Check it
out. Coming up tomorrow, the JOLS
report. Wednesday, ADP, Thursday claims.
Friday, the big one, the headline act is
the payrolls report. The estimate in our
survey are really punchy. quite decent
89k wide range. It's always wide these
days. The high is 125, the low is 50,
but anything above 50, most economists
will tell you in this economy that's
okay.
>> Yeah. And you add to it potential
revisions if you do have a
solidification of the relatively robust
number that we got the prior read. How
much does this create a problem for the
Fed? You were talking about the dual
mandate before in terms of inflation and
the labor market. If the labor market
shows signs of strength, how much does
that drum beat increase to potentially
hike rates? Looking ahead to the main
economic data points of the week ahead
of us. Equity futures look like this.
All-time highs coming into Monday.
Record highs coming into June. Up by a
quart of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up
by 0.27. In the bond market, you'll
notice yields climbing just a little bit
this morning. Two's out to 30s, up three
basis points on 10, just sub 450. This
move in crude setting the tone this
morning. Just a bit of a bounce. WTI and
Brent up by more than 3%. Under Savas
this morning, a long road to a deal.
I think Trump is getting what he wants.
This is a deal about gasoline prices at
the pump in the United States. Uh Trump
worries obviously about the uh the price
levels people are paying. He's worried
about the effect on inflation. He's
worried about the effect on the
elections in November. But this is not a
deal that really ends the war in a
satisfactory way for the United States.
So here's the latest this morning. The
president saying an interim peace deal
with Iran will quote work out well.
Traffic through the straight formers
remains a key sticking point with Iran
doubling down on plans to control the
waterway. Bl's Tyler Kendall has the
latest. Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, the US
and Iran did continue diplomatic efforts
over the weekend as President Trump is
now urging patience. He went on in that
post on True Social to say that constant
speculation is not helping and that
everyone should quote sit back and
relax. We did hear from some Iranian
officials over the weekend who confirmed
that the two sides continue to trade
proposed amendments on the potential
agreement, but they say ultimately the
talks could still collapse. And that
appears to be partly because there are
still these huge sticking points between
the two sides as Iranian state media
reported over the weekend that the
current draft agreement would give Iran
the quote exclusive authority to control
which vessels transit through the
straight of Hermuse. something we know
is a non-starter for the US. And in
fact, we heard from Sentcom over the
weekend saying that they are bolstering
those efforts and that they are sharing
information with vessels to help them
transit through the strait. Though at
this point, they're not going to deploy
military assets to serve as escorts. And
this has actually helped to bolster,
according to sources telling Bloomberg
News, uh, ship owners optimism when it
comes to the uptick in traffic in the
straight. Though of course it is still
well below the pre-conlict levels as
data analyzed by Bloomberg News shows at
least a quarter of nonIranian tankers
have made their way through. Though
John, we know that the risks still
remain and that tensions are incredibly
elevated as we've now seen a series uh
of uh strikes exchanged in recent days
just overnight. John Sentcom did confirm
that the US hit Iranian radar and drone
sites with the IRGC saying that it
retaliated and Kuwait reported that
ballistic missiles entered into its
airspace.
>> Tyler Keller with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, you too should quote
sit back and relax. Should you be
relaxed about this situation? This
headline just crossed on the Bloomberg
terminal moments ago. The drip freed
about what is in and what is not in this
particular draft deal continues to pour
through.
>> Right. So Iran is saying that the
uranium transfer disposal is not in the
US Iran draft agreement which means it
does not meet the critical red line this
president has talked about when it comes
to why he even began strikes in Iran.
>> Hen Tra partners has this to say
investors should not count on Congress
reigning in the president on the war
particularly with gas prices now down to
a fairly inconceivable 435 per gallon on
average. Henrietta I'm right there with
you. The idea the straight's been all
but shut, largely shut for the last 3
months and we're at 435 is quite
impressive. Your thoughts on this deal?
What's holding things back from getting
the sign off from the president?
>> It's still the tax policy. Um, obviously
the nuclear issue is a problem, the
physical blockade, the mining, the
drones, uh, the mosquito boats. All
those issues are real, but it's always
the tax policy, as we've been saying
from the jump. And it's the reality that
if the IRGC controls the strait, then
you need to work with them. And they are
a state sp sponsor of terror. So we've
been in this ceasefire for what, two
months now. Operation Economic Fury with
Secretary Bessett going back and forth
imposing some of the largest sanctions
we've ever seen, offering sanctions
waiverss at the same time has created
this confusion around whether or not we
can work with a state sponsor of terror
and then ultimately allow them to tax an
area that they now have military control
over. Um, it's a tax problem and those
issues take months. I mean, just think
about how long it took us to write the
one big beautiful bill or the 1986 tax
reform or the tax cuts and jobs act.
This stuff takes forever. Um, and I
think for the investment community, the
most important question is what are we
going to do about gas prices if we're
concerned about consumers? And the
reason I say it's inconceivable that we
see rates this low is because we're
still under that $5 threshold. And as
long as we're under five bucks, Congress
is not going to go out of their way to
pass a gas tax holiday. You know, the
good news is they also won't do an
export control ban. Hopefully the
administration won't do that. But we're
not in that urgent place. And that's
that's very unexpected. Not what I would
have anticipated.
>> When you speak to lawmakers on Capitol
Hill, do they tell you that that $5 a
gallon mark is when potentially we could
see legislation to help ease consumer
pressures?
>> That's exactly it, Emory. Um, and that
goes all the way back to, I would say,
the very beginning of the war. I think
the first time I heard that was up on
the hill with some very solid
Republicans who were hearing more about
the president. Personally, we were
dealing with that, you know, Christ the
Healer. Uh if you remember that
Instagram post or the Twitter post, um
it really was $5 gas and June. So what's
interesting here is those were the two
variables that lawmakers and their staff
would tell me were most important. We
haven't hit $5, but we did get to 456
and now we're down to 433, but we're in
June. So they're in this stalemate where
we expected both of those things to
cross at once and only one of them has.
Only time has gone by. So, I was talking
to House Republican staffer yesterday,
one of my favorite people in the world,
and she said, "Be mindful that there's
only 18 legislative days until the
August recess." That's really what you
need to know.
>> When it comes to the Street of Hermoose,
the president once said the US and Iran
could actually manage it in a G JV, a
joint venture. Can you see Congress
passing on that?
>> No way. And more importantly, it's not
just America that's involved here. I
mean, I talked to a lot of other nations
and their trade council and their trade
negotiators as well, and they do not
have any interest in normalizing
relations with a state sponsor of
terror. You know, they see the IRGC as
an entity that they don't want to work
with. They don't support the fact that
the president got us into this mess. And
they're really slow walking their
response because they do not want to
communicate with them. These are western
banking nations, western banking
corporations, western banking shipping
and they don't want to violate the OLAC
laws. They want to continue to
perpetuate the western banking system
and they're the also a huge hold up.
Their meeting that I think is most
important is going to be in Anara July
7th and 8th and we'll see if there's any
movement but they don't want to pay the
toll and that's really important.
>> This market has been so humbling over
the last three months. That's for sure.
Hreda, thank you. Henrietta trace there
of Vader Partners. humbling for us all
sitting there at the start of March
worried about a prolonged conflict with
Iran and the straight not reopening for
several weeks and here we are 3 months
later with equities up by more than 20%
on the NASDAQ up 10% on the S&P and high
yield credit spreads tighter by more
than 30 basis points over that period.
>> It's mind-numbing and it's the reason
why the pay trade's been higher because
it runs counter to what you would assume
when you take a look at oil prices and
what you see on the ground. The question
that a lot of people are asking is are
oil prices subdued because of job owning
from the central bank of President Trump
or are uh oil prices subdued because
there is leakage there are oil tankers
that are getting out and actually the
supplies are much greater than people
expected. The answer to that is actually
really important and inconclusive at
this point.
>> I think it's a little bit of both
though. At least in the paper market you
see it whipssaw the second you have a
truth from the president. Sometimes in
the past few months it's been gaps that
we've seen an entire year. But the
physicality of this you have to think
some of it is lower because we already
know ADN knock is getting some of their
material out.
>> The job burn has been pretty impressive
the effect it's had. But also the
inventory draw down has been a lot more
effective than maybe some people in the
commodity market expected it to be. Up
next, Sarah comes to Cleo Capital as
Nvidia introduces a new PC chip.
What a winning run on the S&P 500 on a
daily basis. 7 days on a weekly basis
making week nine. Equity futures this
morning setting things up in the right
way for week 10. Maybe long way to go.
Up by quarter of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.3 in the bond market.
Focus on the front end of the curve.
Just pick our twos. will isolate that
point of the yield curve two's last week
the biggest weekly decline in yield
terms that we've seen through the year
so far and the first weekly decline that
we've actually seen going back to April
yields this morning a little bit higher
up by two or three basis points setting
the tone for that move lower was crude
last month and last week down by more
than 10% crude this morning setting the
tone for the move higher crude bouncing
by more than 3% Brent back at 94 WTI
back at the 90s more strikes over the
weekend and no deal. Promise of a deal,
but no deal.
>> Yeah. Even Sentcom coming out this
morning saying it conducted self-defense
strikes on Iranian radar and command
control sites for drones. So, giving you
a sense that kinetic activity very much
is still continuing in the region
despite the ongoing ceasefire at least
in name only. A question going forward
is going to be how much will the
inflationary backdrop be dictated by oil
prices and how much will it be driven by
the underlying strength in the economy?
And that's what the labor market data
this week is going to be really
important. Payrolls this coming Friday.
Crude right now 93.99.
Counting you're down to the open about
three hours away with your morning
movers. Yahara has more. Yahara.
>> Hi John. We start with Nvidia. Those
shares are moving higher in the
pre-market up more than 2% after the
chip giants unveiled a new AI focused
processor for Windows laptops. Expanding
Nvidia's reach beyond data centers and
into everyday consumer devices just as
the next generation of AI powered
laptops rolls out. And for that reason,
you are seeing AMD shares and Intel
under pressure, some 5% as Nvidia
encroaches on uh one of their most
important businesses. Turning to some
deal news, we are seeing Taylor Morrison
shares shooting up 22% in the pre-market
after Berkshire Hathaway agreed to buy
the home builder in a 6.8 uh billion
dollar cash deal. What's notable is, of
course, this is coming uh during a tough
time for the homebuilders, of course,
due to affordability issues. So, it's
interesting that uh Greg Ael has chosen
this area um as his first major
acquisition under um as CEO of
Bergkshire Hathaway. And we end on
shares of Wise. This is a payments and
money transfer company. shares are
plunging uh nearly 17% in the pre-market
after the company confirms it's
responding to questions from prosecutors
in Belgium as authorities there
investigate whether wise accounts um may
have been used to launder money tied to
fraud uh corruption and drug
trafficking. John
>> Yara thank you. Thanks for the update.
Burkabanga home builder gets your
attention. Interesting moment to do just
that
>> especially because it is the first big
move by Greg Ael. And guess what?
They're looking to buy affordable homes.
They're talking about the affordability
issue. This comes ahead of what a lot of
people think will be subsidies. So, how
much they try to get ahead of some of
those subsidies and get in on a tax
advantage strategy and how much can they
merge with our Brookshire Hathaway realy
sides that you see everywhere. You know,
how much they unite those those efforts.
>> A major policy push could be on the
horizon here going into the 28 general
election which is not too far away. On
our radar this morning, the US and Iran
trading fresh strikes near the stramer.
Both countries confirming talks for a
potential deal still underway. the
president posting quote sit back and
relax. It will all work out in the end.
Elsewhere, the former Fed chair Jay Pal
addressing the risk of public pressure
from the White House on the central
bank.
If any administration finds a way to
remove Fed officials over policy
differences, then future administrations
will do so as well. The Fed's
credibility would be lost.
>> The remarks coming as the Supreme Court
weighs the future of Fed Governor Lisa
Kirk, who President Trump has pushed to
remove. And finally, Nvidia making a
push into the PC market. The world's
largest company introducing a new chip
aimed at competing with Intel. The
developers are so excited about it. This
is an incred incredible computer. All of
the acceleration, all the software
capabilities associated with it, working
with every developer to make it
incredible for all of you.
>> The chip set to debut in laptops and
desktops from leading PC brands later
this year. Welcome RTX Spark Superchip,
which is going to debut uh soon in
computers that will probably be outside
of your price point because these are
going to be very high-end computers, at
least at first. The first question could
be why are they doing this? They already
own the data center out outcropping. Why
do they need to dominate the likes of
Intel and AMD's landscape? And the
answer could be because the way that
we're all going to consume some of these
AI tools will be on our personal
computers. Is this going to be the
democratization of some of the large
language models? and how much they're
trying to make sure that they did what
Apple did, which was create an ecosystem
impenetrable to other competitors,
saying if you want to run our chips uh
with respect to data centers and large
language models, you need to have our
chips for our PCs.
>> And it's a heavily penetrated market
already. So the first question is why
are they going back into this? They
tried to do this a decade ago, but it's
because of AI and everyone's going to
have to have this new faster replacement
cycle and Nvidia wants to be a part of
that. I find it interesting because
they're going to be taking market share
likely away from Intel. The US
government has a stake in Intel, and I
would love to know what they think about
this move from Jensen Wong. You know,
one of the president's so-called best
friends.
>> He won't be happy with that move. Intel
in the pre-market down 5%.
>> It's pretty logical if you think about
that was the one moat that they had that
Intel that Nvidia is coming after uh
their lunch. At the same time, if they
create something that is internationally
competitive, does that go to the
national champion type strategy that the
president has tried to issue?
>> Sarah comes to Cleo Capital writing the
following. Here's the quote from her. If
the data center play calls off, this is
something Nvidia can point to as part of
their continued ability to dominate.
Jensen remains the king of the deal
optics. Sarah joined us now for more.
Sarah, just picking up on that last
point of that quote and welcome to the
program. Do you believe this is just
optics or is there some real substance
here?
>> I mean, it's real. There will be real
chips. Jensen does what he says he's
going to do. That being said, uh I don't
think we've heard a lot about the
financials. it is unlikely to be
transformative to their status as the
world's biggest company. Um, I think
it's a nice to have and a little bit of
a flex.
>> Flex for what purpose? Is this a flex to
try to say to Intel, AMD, hey, remember
who's boss? Or is it a flex when it
comes to the way that we all absorb
chips normally, which is in our phones
and in our personal computing devices? I
think it's a reminder to the street that
uh whatever direction AI takes because
we do know that inference has gotten
ondevice inference has gotten a lot of
funding a lot of attention um from
venture capital investors. It sort of
helps uh take some of the pressure off
of the backlash against data centers.
And so I think that Jensen just wants to
remind everybody that he is going to be
everywhere that AI goes.
>> Nvidia's uh shares are only up about 13%
so far this year. And I say only because
you're looking at the likes of SK Heinex
up some uh million%. I mean if you start
looking at the zeros and trying to
calculate it, it becomes mind-numbing.
How much is this trying to Jensen Hang
trying to say you guys are looking past
us for meteoric growth, but we have more
meteor meteor meteoric growth ahead of
us?
>> Absolutely. I mean it is really hard to
anniversary the kinds of years they've
been having. Um, I think we see
something similar sometimes with with
Alphabet as well, where they are, in my
mind, the clear undisputed leaders in
AI, but because they're already doing so
well, it can be hard to sort of get the
market uh to continue to be as excited
about them when they can go look at
something like SKH Highix and say, "Oh,
we can take this from a somewhat
undervalued Asian market competitor uh
to a borderline overvalued, right, US
stock that that everybody wants to buy
into. And so the price action uh gets
more muted as your company sort of just
goes from strength to strength versus
starting from behind and and really kind
of going up and to the right.
>> Sarah, what do you think this does for
Intel? Does this how much does this hurt
them?
>> I'm not sure it'll hurt them. Um I think
that that the reality is that these are
different businesses in terms of where
their core businesses are. If anything,
I think that that it could actually help
people pull back and say, "Wait, are we
properly valuing the Intels of the world
um because we've sort of put them a
little bit to the side and said their
their chips aren't as high-tech. This
isn't where the future is. It's kind of
Nvidia or bust." And and so if anything,
I think that longer term that chart
could actually start going back up.
>> You mentioned in your original note, the
'9s are back in this summer. Well, Intel
was king in the 90s. PCs were king in
the 90s. Do you see this market people
saying Nvidia is getting into this
because potentially people are going to
have to upgrade because of AI? Are
people going to be using PCs in the
future?
>> Yeah, I mean dayto-day, right? We maybe
aren't using PCs all the time. I'm
talking to you from a laptop right now,
right? We we don't necessarily use the
sort of big desktops that we grew up
with. um but a lot of enterprise does
and we saw that with with the Mac Mini
kind of surge um because people wanted
to get their hands on them for claude
and so while we don't think of this as
kind of a consumer play I I think that
certainly in enterprise yes and then the
other thing about these inference chips
is they have a big play in phones as
well and that's something we certainly
all use all the time
>> hit pause on a freakout with that Intel
move of 5% just out the corner of my eye
just looking at this chart of Intel up
by more than 210% % on the year so far.
Phenomenal.
>> Yeah, it's not exactly uh going to kill
the people who've been in Intel from the
beginning of the year. And if anything,
to Sarah's point, it gives it new cache.
It's such a hot market, even though it's
an old market that even Jensen Wong
wants to get into it. Well, you know, we
got to go where the cool kids are going.
>> Sarah, can I just finish on something a
little bit more juvenile? The dancing.
The dancing reminds people of Microsoft
and Balmer and others, too. Is that kind
of thing indicative of anything about
where we are in this point of the cycle?
>> You know, I think that we are at the
hero worship stage. Um, the reality is
that Jensen, whoever helps him sort of
craft his image, they are masters at it.
He is the Michael Jordan of tech CEOs.
Um, he really truly tends to not miss.
And so if he is dancing, I suspect that
culturally that is something that is
going to be wellreceived.
>> Sarah Ka Cleo Capital. Sarah, thank you.
Appreciate it. Unlike Balmer, most
people even at the time thought that
didn't look cool, right? Whereas Jensen
seems like he's having a genuinely good
time. And it's hard to say that Jensen
doesn't look pretty cool when he's doing
these things.
>> He's not trying to look cool. He's like
>> he's having fun. He's not exactly
somebody who's like trying to get slick
moves. Would you rather that or would
you rather the article that came out
about Bill Gates having a Mr. Rogers
look that everybody was talking about to
try to make sure that he was as vanilla
as possible and unthreatening? I mean,
Jensen Wong, it seems like, is kind of
owning himself. I don't know. That's
>> Jensen on a food tour. He's having a
good time.
>> I mean, yeah.
>> Credit to his wife and his daughter who
apparently I've heard him in interviews
talk about they're behind his look. So,
they were the ones that I think said,
you know, try this leather jacket look.
You can't make that up. I mean,
>> he's the guy at the party actually
enjoying himself.
>> Yeah. And it kind of goes to where he
was as a young uh entrepreneur. That's
kind of who he was as well.
>> I'm never the guy at the party actually
enjoying themselves. I'm looking forward
to leaving without anybody noticing. You
never pretend you're not even at the
party.
>> But yeah, I was about to say like you
are. No.
>> Let's get you an update on news
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. It's the hours is about
the hours. Isabelle Lee has more.
>> Hi John. Celebrity lawyer Abel de la
Espaya unexpectedly winning the first
round of Colombia's presidential
election with almost 44% of votes. The
results put the conservative outsider in
a strong position to become the nation's
next president. Asia's largest lowcost
carrier, Indigo, reporting an unexpected
quarterly loss. That's amid disruptions
linked to the Iran war. The net loss was
around $267 million compared with
analyst expectations for a profit of
$197 million.
Goldman Sachs sees two-sided risks for
oil as weaker demand competes with
supply losses tied to the Iran war. The
firm says April sales data in China and
Western Europe imply about 2 million
barrels a day of downside risk to demand
which could knock roughly $10 a barrel
of its $90 4Q brand forecast. That's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Isabelle, thank you. More from Isabelle
Lee in about 30 minutes time. Up next on
the program, AI's labor reckoning.
>> People talk about AI reducing jobs,
complete nonsense. Because the output is
so incredible, people want to hire more.
This is going to show up in our economy
somehow soon.
>> Toss of Apollo agrees. He joins us next
live from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
Stocks adding to gains. all-time highs
on Friday, record highs to start June.
We look like they're up by a quarter of
1% on the S&P, up by a third on the
NASDAQ 100. Under surveus this morning,
AI's labor reckoning.
People talk about AI reducing jobs.
Complete nonsense. It's causing more
software engineers to be hired because
the output is so incredible. People want
to hire more software engineers. This is
going to show up in our economy somehow
soon. And so the first thing is useful
AI has arrived.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
Nvidia boss, Jens 1, saying concerns
around AI's impact on the workforce are
overblown. Torson Slock of Apollo
agrees, writing there is zero evidence
of job losses because of AI non-farm
payrolls for May could come in
significantly higher than the around 90k
expected. To join us for more tools,
good morning. Good to see you. What are
people getting wrong? Well, I think what
people are getting wrong is this whole
notion that it's not only about
individual companies. It's what's
happening at the macro level. And at the
macro level, it's become much easier to
open a business. You see this in the
surveys uh from the census of how many
businesses are created every week is
exploding higher. You're also seeing
data from Stripe showing you the number
of solo founders of new businesses is
also exploding higher. So, there's a lot
of new businesses that are created. Yes,
some of them will probably only be one
employer, namely the founder, but a lot
of these businesses will also result in
a lot more jobs. So, it's not only about
the displacement that there might come
on some micro levels. It's much more
about the aggregate where we have a
significant increase in the number of
new businesses that are formed.
>> It doesn't help as you know that some of
the individuals at the frontier of this
massive push are talking about a white
collar wash out when it comes to the
labor force. What's your message to
them? Well, yeah, this has started
actually already in the spring of last
year where there was a lot of people
beginning to talk about, well, within
one year's time, we will already have
layoffs and we'll have entry- level jobs
that may no longer exist. But here we
are with ADP on a weekly basis for the
last 8 weeks producing 30 40,000 jobs
every week. Jobless claims still being
low. ISM today, over the last 6 months,
ISM has gone up. We're above 50. ISM is
likely going to be also high today. And
now we have some very strong tailwinds,
not only from the AI spending boom, but
also from the one big beautiful bill.
This economy really is on fire in the
sense that we both have strong growth
and we also have upward pressures on
inflation and now we also have of course
the ultimate risk that if AI does result
in more job growth it will be really the
miracle drug that both creates higher
productivity and also creates higher job
growth.
>> That can be true at the same time that
John's assertion can be true which is
that white collar jobs can decline as a
proportion of overall jobs. If you look
at the job growth and where it's come
from, it's construction, it's
manufacturing, it's in healthcare, it's
in education, it's not in finance, it's
not in media and media services. So, how
do you square those two ideas?
>> Well, if you look at also the
unemployment rate, so now we'll get more
data on Friday. If you look at the
unemployment rate for people that are
between 20 and 24 years old, that has
exactly gone down in the last 6 months.
Also telling you that it's not the case
that young people can't find a job.
There's some issues around what type of
job they can get. And yes, maybe they
may not be getting initially the job
that they wanted. That may be something
also about expectations for young people
when it goes into that discussion. But
the bottom line still really here is
that at the end of the day, young people
are actually doing really well because
the unemployment rate for young people
is actually lower than where it was 6
months ago.
>> Okay. To build on that, the conversation
yesterday among some of the people who
might be entering the workforce in a
notsodistant future, plumbing, a
discussion around becoming a plumber
because you're going to make a lot of
money in plumbing, but you're not
necessarily going to make a lot of money
going into white collar workforce. So,
at what point is that the type of work
that is going to be the future of a lot
of the job creation? And is that what
we're seeing right now in some of the
data?
>> Yeah. But I'm also critical of this
whole idea that white collar workers are
just going to say, "Oh, I got fired. I'm
just going home in my basement and
sitting here rolling my thumbs." Of
course, those white collar workers are
going to say, "Hey, maybe we should open
a business. Maybe I have some friends,
maybe have some connections from my last
job." And I think that that's exactly
what's going to make it a lot easier
with our language models, with agents to
build a new model. And that's exactly
why business formation is going up.
That's why the number of soul founders,
solo founders has also been going up.
And that business formation will
ultimately also result in a lot more job
growth.
>> Can we touch on something you said about
expect that might be about expectations
of those entering the workforce? Are you
saying that potential younger
generations if they don't like some of
the characteristics of a job, they are
going to not go into the workforce and
potentially maybe start their own
business or do something else?
>> Well, there is certainly a lot of of
course discussion around well is it
because young people can't find a job?
They can certainly find a job, but then
why are we having this discussion? Maybe
exactly to your point, Anarie, maybe we
are actually hearing more young people
just not having met their expectations
of where they could get a job. In other
words, maybe they didn't get the job
that they thought that they could get.
So yes, maybe there is something also
when it comes to the expectations of
younger households and younger people
when they enter the labor force.
>> What you're describing me sounds like
entitlement, but we'll leave it there. I
want to ask you another question. Do you
think the Federal Reserve has been quote
undergoing a stress test?
>> Well, I saw Jay Powell of course
yesterday. I he did say at the last
press conference he was going to keep a
low profile but this obviously is
generating some attention here today. So
I do think that it is clear that of
course we'll have new leadership that
leadership is in my view absolutely
going to be completely doing all the
right things and moving in the right
direction but it is a little bit
noteworthy that the outgoing chair here
does bring up issues just in the not in
the 11th hour but the few minutes after
midnight exactly this discussion around
well okay let's now give the new fed
chair a chance and he can then run with
it which he will do in a very good way.
Kevin Walsh, I think, was hopeful that
we'd see the disinflationary impact of
this massive push towards this
technology and they'd be able to have
easier monetary policy. Where do you
stand on that, Torston?
>> Well, we probably have to wait a little
while for that because initially the AI
boom will certainly be inflationary.
It's very clear when you look at
semiconductor prices, when you look at
energy prices, when you look at labor,
meaning what is the price of
constructing a data center and also of
course when you look at the broader
equipment prices, it is also very clear
that this is going to be inflationary.
On top of the upward pressure on
inflation coming from the lacked effects
of tariffs and of course also higher
energy prices. So initially in the
initial phase of the buildout, we should
actually expect the AI data center built
out to be inflationary rather than
disinflationary.
>> Can we finish on the price of AI? There
were some CEOs, not all, but some CEOs
excited about the prospects for Agent
Gentai and replacing the human labor
force with that. When they start to
realize the actual cost of this, will
they have second thoughts on
replacement?
>> Well, this is also a huge discussion
around token demand and token usage and
at the end of the day, token usage is
not necessarily the same thing as
creating higher productivity. So that's
why businesses as we speak are exactly
trying to figure out how much token
demand do we have and do we ultimately
need and will it pay off and will the
price of that token demand also be worth
it relative to the cost of labor. So it
really is a transition where we will
need to figure out over time exactly
what does the end point look like? Are
we going to get to a point where we'll
be much more productive and we'll be in
my view probably need more labor and not
less labor especially in the aggregate
from the macro perspective. You're
pointing to a very much inflationary
backdrop and this comes ahead of the
labor market report that we get on
Friday that could be hotter than
expected if we see the same kind of
trend continue as we saw last month.
What do you think the Fed's response
will ultimately be given the fact that
no one has the appetite to raise rates?
>> Well, this is of course the challenge
that the expectations for a long time in
the dot plot has been that rates are
going down and the Fed is going to cut.
And now markets and fed fund futures are
slowly beginning to say well maybe there
could be a hike coming and we all know
that if there's a hike coming then it
doesn't come alone. Hiking cycles are
never just one hike and that's it. It
will always be three or four hikes or
more. So that's why the market is
debating with itself in brakes. Well if
there is a rate hike cycle beginning
because of these factors that we both
have a low unemployment rate and at the
same time we also have a pressure on
inflation then all those things would
certainly argue for the risk to the
upside name that rates are going to stay
higher for longer. The picture that
you're painting of both an inflationary
buildout of AI plus a labor market
that's poised for expansion, not
contraction, due to the extra economic
activity is one that could call for a
rate hiking cycle. What could you
potentially see? I mean, what is
increasingly your base case going into
2027?
>> Yeah, because this is the Fed's dual
mandate. The Fed has two goals exactly
as you're saying, Lisa, namely the
unemployment rate and that's been going
down and is likely to according to the
consensus continue to go down and
inflation by the end of the year is
still according to the consensus 3%. So
if you have 3% inflation and a very
strong labor market that indeed opens up
a much higher likelihood that we will
see a stronger economy also because of
the tailwind. Let's not forget it's not
only the AI boom but it's also the one
big bill for bill and both these things
are not sensitive to interest rates.
It's really unique. Those factors that
are sensitive to interest rates, GDP,
namely housing and autos, they are
slowing down. But the factors that are
driving growth at the moment, the AI
boom and the one big bill for bill, it
doesn't matter what the Fed funds rate
is doing. We will have an AI boom. It
is doing. The one big bill for bill will
continue to support GDP for the next
several quarters.
>> To see you, it always is sir. Thank you
to SL there of Apollo. That last point,
an important point for this Federal
Reserve. Yes, it's a problem if
inflation is running above target. It's
a bigger problem if it's been running
above target for a number of years, but
it's certainly a major problem for this
institution. If the kind of things that
are driving inflation to multi-year
highs are out of their control and if
they choose to hike interest rates,
you're just beating down the sectors of
the economy that aren't generating
inflation, the sectors of the economy
right now that are really struggling.
>> The I mean ultimately, you've perfectly
articulated why we've heard from all
these Fed officials their unwillingness
to raise rates. They will talk about how
they want to move the easing bias. How
the risks are two-sided increasingly to
the inflation side of things. They
aren't talking up their rate hikes and
they're not pricing it into uh their
SEPs. So, at a certain point, how high
does a bar have to ultimately be?
>> The only thing you can do is attempt to
and I think they're trying to attempt to
anchor inflation expectations. Up next
on the program, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax
and Words. We'll catch up with Sharon
Miller of Bank of America, Ed Auseni of
Colombia threat joining us as well. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance is
just around the corner.
Inflation
is actually benign and fine right now.
>> Then what are we really left with?
Where's the so-called inflation?
>> There's just an embedded narrative that
inflation is not a problem.
>> We think that we're going to see a
slowdown in the back half
>> if we come through this. There is some
risk of a broaderbased economic
acceleration. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second era
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now.
And your price action looks like this.
How many times have we said it coming
into Monday at all-time highs? Equity
futures up another third of 1% following
a 7-day winning streak. On the NASDAQ up
by a third in the bond market, you'll
notice yields this morning across the
curve. Twos, 10, and 30s bleeding a
little bit higher of three basis points
at the front end of the curve. Taking a
bite out of last week's move with this
move here in crude this morning. WTI and
Brent up by more than 3%. Brent crude
just short of 94. WTI back in the 90s
going into this week. The week ahead
looks like this. Full of economic data
through the week. Jolts tomorrow, ADP on
Wednesday, claims on Thursday, payrolls
this coming Friday.
>> And that's where the proof is going to
be. Ultimately, if you have higher input
costs, higher commodity prices, that
becomes a headwind. If you don't have
the growth to continue with it, if you
have the growth and you have the job
creation, well, suddenly you have an
inflation problem. And that's where the
issue comes for the Federal Reserve on
Friday. If we see the unemployment rate
drop and you start to see wages paid
increase at the same time with a
headline number that comes in strong,
these sounds will be resounding, not
just to remove the easing bias, which
remarkably they still have, but to
potentially jawbone a little bit more
hawkishly going forward. Imagine if they
still kept it. Is it June 17th?
>> Aaron Kennon.
>> Imagine if they still kept it.
>> Aaron Kenned thought that they keep the
easing bias because ultimately that is
the path of travel. Maybe it ultimately
is. But without pain, you start to see
where is the rationale right now.
>> The guess for Friday, 89k is the median
estimate in our survey. The range is 125
at the high end, 50k at the low. That's
a decent set of forecasts for payrolls
this coming Friday.
>> Absolutely. and that would be welcomed
by this White House, especially when you
have an unemployment rate that's still
close to 4%. But the issue is not right
now for the jobs market for them. The
issue right now is, of course, is what
is going on with inflation and the
concern with gasoline prices. And based
off the president's truth social post at
1:03 a.m., it does look like he's
looking for more time for more of
leeway, roadmap, breathing space from
Congress and some people that he says
are quote chirping about the deal cuz
he's saying to sit back and relax. It
all work out in the end. Well, we've
been here how many times before and
we're still not at the end.
>> And yet here we are and crude at 90.
It's not at 1, 110, 120, 130, 140, 150.
It's not at 200, which is a number that
was thrown out there by some people in
this commodity market 3 months ago.
>> Dripping, yeping. I just am like sitting
here thinking like what other adjectives
are we going to have going forward? This
is to me ultimately one of the
conundrums for the market. Is the reason
for oil prices not being higher because
of the job owning because people listen
and they're like, "Oh, okay. It's we're
all getting to a resolution." Or is it
because inventories have doing the heavy
lifting? to your point, the fact that
there was more crude on uh the water and
that there are some ships getting
through and that is ultimately what a
lot of people keep pointing to despite
some of the physical shortage warnings
that we keep hearing.
>> It's been a managed shortage.
>> Yeah.
>> Big time and that's helped out without a
doubt. There's a big fat cushion there
supporting things help ensure helping
ensure that people get supply. It's not
to say that we haven't had shortages in
certain places in the world. We have in
Asia certainly haven't experienced them
here states side. What's been phenomenal
really is that we haven't seen the price
drop in a bigger way in America either
because of this massive inventory draw
down.
>> Well, we have the strategic petroleum
reserve. We have the inventories being
drawn down. The issue is what happens
when we get to very low levels and you
hear from the oil companies and they're
saying June is going to be a critical
month. But to Lisa's point, how much can
you quantify what is getting through the
straight of Hermoose right now? You just
saw from the IRGC this morning that
about 15 ships they allowed through. You
heard the New York Times reporting that
Sentcom over the weekend talked about
their reporting 70 ships they got
through. We have reporting that ADN
knock is getting some of their products
out. It's hard to quantify exactly how
much is shut right now shut in when it
comes to straight up moose.
>> Equities aren't blinking. Crude's up
again. Futures still positive by a
quarter of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Sarah Hunt of Alpine
Saxon and words with stocks adding to
alltime highs. We'll catch up with
Sharon Miller of Bank for America on how
small businesses are spending big on
tech and Ed Alhuseni of Columbia Thread
Needle on the growing gods for rate hike
later this year. We begin this hour with
stocks kicking off a new trading month
at fresh record highs. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Saxon Woods writing there is
plenty of enthusiasm out there but
without earnings it would be hard for
markets to look through some of the
clouds on the horizon. Sarah joins us
now for more. Sarah, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> What are those clouds on the horizon?
>> Oh, we just talked about some of them. I
mean, you look at you look at where
energy prices are right now, and I'm
amazed, too, because when we sat here in
April and we discussed this, it didn't
seem like this was going to be the case
if we got to June and we were still in
this problem. I think what's interesting
is how much, you know, people adapt and
you get crude moving in different ways.
But I also think there are other, it's a
very narrow market. The earnings are
being drawn very, very small slice.
That's a very exciting slice and
everybody's really excited about it, but
it's not quite as broad and if you don't
get inflation to back down, you could
start seeing some issues into earnings
from that for that reason. It's
certainly keeping financial conditions
easier than they otherwise would be.
Equities at record highs, high yield
credit spreads are tight. How supportive
is that for growth here?
>> I think it's very supportive. I mean, I
think that's one of the things that we
always look for when we think that
things might be getting a little worse
from the economic standpoint is you look
at credit spreads, you look at and you
see where things are. Those are so
tight. Corporations are raising money.
This AI boom is being fueled by a
combination of cash and debt and they're
able to raise that debt without too much
of a problem. That is very supportive
for what's going on. It's the underneath
things that are somewhat problematic
that could be an issue as we go forward.
So far, it hasn't been as bad as I think
we all expected it to be.
>> Julian Emanuel of Evercore ISI put out a
note this weekend where he wrote this.
Record weight in a handful of names is
creating a market of stocks, not a stock
market. Is that a feature or is that a
bug?
>> At the moment, right now, it's a
feature, especially if you own those
stocks, right? But it's a bug longer
term because you don't you don't
necessarily want the index to be so
highly weighted in just a handful of
names that that's all that drives what's
going on. And I think right now there
are plenty of places where earnings are
growing that are part of the giant
ancillary buildout, but you still have
places where you see a lot of potential
spending issues and inflation issues as
you move along. you it's very difficult
to not think from a transportation side
that that doesn't get built into prices
and that's a problem except for the fact
that the larger cohort of spending is
from people for whom it's not as much of
a problem but it still ultimately does
get there.
>> One of the big challenges that some
people have raised is that we aren't
seeing the broadening out that we aren't
seeing sort of the beneficial uh
ramifications in some of the economic
data and some of the other sectors that
could participate. Uh on Friday we get
the labor market report. What do you
think is the sweet spot that would give
people confidence that the rest of the
economy is starting to see that
broadening out and not necessarily
experiencing such heat that would put
the Fed still in focus?
>> I think from a broader perspective, a
higher number is going to give people
more confidence because it means that
companies are still hiring, right? And I
think that that's an issue, especially
since some of the larger AI companies
went on a little bit of an anti-hiring
boom and in fact, they were firing
people for a while. But I think I mean
going forward so far it's been
remarkable how much spending has held up
even though the soft data has been weak.
The the actual data has not been nearly
as weak as the sentiment surveys would
would suggest. So I think that that's
more of a concern about what's happening
but on the ground people are still
spending a lot of money.
>> When you look at the hiring market we of
course and we've been talking about this
a lot on this show what the standard
charge CEO had to say. But do you think
AI is truly replacing jobs or is that
just right now the easiest excuse for a
lot of firms to turn to? I think it's I
think it's both. I think it's an an
excuse for people to get rid of people,
but I also think that you're going to
have an and where it's going to be
people and AI. I mean, software was
looked at as as a as a situation that
was going to be a disaster and then all
of a sudden it's starting to people are
starting to realize that you need people
to look at the code that the coders are
create that the code is creating for
itself. So, I don't think it's as
destructive in the near term. But I
think for the companies that are
spending a lot of money, they're looking
through their looking through their
payrolls and going maybe we don't need
all the people that we need. And I think
that's the problem. It's not so much
that it's going to take over the world,
but that that extra hiring, that extra
people that you need right now, they
don't need it. And to Torstston's point
earlier, you've got this inflationary
boom before you maybe get some of the
deflationary effect that it might that
people are hoping it'll bring.
>> Software just had a massive month up by
more than 20% on IGV last month. What's
behind the bouts? Well, I think that I I
think that it was devastated so terribly
that it's not a huge issue to see that
that it's actually not going out of
business, that there are a lot of
companies within the IGV that are going
to be fine that the for a lot of
companies it's going to be about growth
on the margin and the companies that
grow by seat, right? That's going to
move more of an issue. But for a lot of
other companies, you are integrating
that AI with software. It is not going
the software is not going away because
the AI is there. You need both of those
things. And I think that that's the the
realization is that it's not as
devastating as people thought originally
or at least this past doesn't look so
devastating.
>> Yet, today we're only down by 3 to 4%.
Now, it was catastrophic a few months
back for that particular part of
technology stocks.
>> You've had winners though and losers,
right? Snowflake has been a huge boom in
terms of their partnership with Amazon.
And on the other side, Salesforce hasn't
done as well. So, it hasn't necessarily
been everybody gaining back what they
lost. I do want to issue up a
correction. We were talking about
plumbers and uh other people who might
benefit and someone said, "Why always
plumbers? Are electricians carpenters
and painters chopped liver?" No, they
are not. I also will recommend to my son
electrician and carpenter work because
potentially that could also be
lucrative.
>> This is why you always get a shortage
and then you get a glut. I hear the same
conversations with the labor market
repeatedly. How many plumbers do you
think we're going to have in 15 years
>> based on this particular push in the
last 12 months
>> based on the certain current
availability? I mean, I welcome it right
now because it's certainly a shortage,
but you're right, the idea of technical
uh prowess becoming the next trading
zone until robots get up and running and
then all of a sudden we have the same
issue.
>> You mentioned the winners and losers in
software. Let's pick up on that.
Microsoft's still down in the year by
7%. Not all hyperscalers are created
equally. Alphabet's flag and has been
over the last 12 months. What's holding
back that name? What's holding back
Microsoft?
>> I think it's concerns about whether or
not they are they are growing in the
right ways at the right time. Is there
something that's going to happen to the
software side? I don't know that it's
actually I think that that's more of a
reaction to the combination of their
businesses than it is about anything
specifically Microsoft is doing. And I
actually think that that's one place
where you could see some further
recovery.
>> Oh, you'd you'd go into that name.
>> Well, I think that it's not Yeah, I
don't I don't think that there's
anything wrong with Microsoft here. I
think actually because it's been a
lagard, there are reasons to think that
there that that going forward, I don't
think you're going to be a year from now
sitting here going Microsoft was a
terrible investment. Well, 12 months
ago, we could have said the same thing
about Alphabet and here we are. Is it
too early to pick the winners and losers
in technology?
>> I think it is. I mean, I think that's
part of the problem and that's where
there's a scramble and you keep getting
these rotations because people think
that this is, oh, this is definitely
going to win. This is definitely going
to lose. And a couple months later,
you're like, "Oh, maybe I was wrong
about that. We've got to reverse some of
that or we went too far in that trade."
So, I think that some of the volatility
is definitely on a rotational basis.
>> Sarah, always good to see you. You're
going to stick with us. Sarah Hunt of
Ampi Sax and Woods. Microsoft still down
on the year, but up 10% last month, up
10% the month before. Software started
to have a bouts.
>> Part of the uh reason why people aren't
necessarily uh being able to pinpoint
winners and losers so easily. First of
all, it's always difficult when you're
in the early innings of some sort of
technological revolution. I was talking
to one banker recently and I said, "How
is this the similar or different to 2000
and other tech booms?" And he said, "You
don't have a sense of what the ultimate
future will look like or what the goal
is or exactly how it's going to be used.
You don't know when you even are going
to reach it. There is a level of
uncertainty about the ultimate end point
that I think is very different than in
the past.
>> Futures this morning on the S&P positive
by a quarter of 1% adding some weight to
the rally with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Isabelle Lee has more. Hey Isabelle.
>> Hi John. Israel expanding its ground
assault in Lebanon as Hezbollah steps up
attacks on Israel's north. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the new US
proposed ceasefire with Iran would
involve Hezbollah stopping attacks on
Israel and Israel refraining from
escalation in Beirut. The Janice
Henderson Global Technology Fund is
adding SKH Highix to its portfolio. The
fund's co-manager saying Skhinx
dominance means it may enjoy quote a bit
more outside earnings growth next year.
Shares have already risen a thousand% in
the past year. And Anthropic is set to
give the EU cyber security agency access
to Mythos. This is the highly advanced
AI model. Access to Mythos has been
limited since it was first previewed due
to fears it could fall into the hands of
cyber criminals. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Isabelle, thank you. More from Isabelle
in about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, keeping credibility at the Fed.
If any administration finds a way to
remove Fed officials over policy
differences, then future administrations
will do so as well. The Fed's
credibility would be lost.
>> Governor Pal keeping a not so low
profile. More on that up next with Tana
Kendall live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
nineweek winning streak on the S&P 500.
We haven't had a weekly decline since
March and since the lows of March. A 20%
move off the bottom on the S&P 500. on
the S&P this morning, up again here in
June by a quarter of 1% on the NASDAQ up
by 0.2. In the bond market, yields with
a bit of a bounce across twos, 10, and
30s. Yields up by three basis points on
the front end to 4.03%
with this happening in crude just a
build up again, a bounce. WTI and Brent
Brent crude up by 3%. Last month, the
biggest monthly decline we've seen since
spring of 2020, down by almost 20%.
That's your bounce this morning of just
3% at $94 a barrel. It's not going to
make people cry in terms of this idea
that suddenly commodity prices are going
to cause demand destruction. It is going
to create discomfort though for the
Federal Reserve. You have to wonder are
yields rising for the right reason or
the wrong reason. Is it because there's
so much strength in the economy that we
can absorb higher prices and it leads to
inflation? And ultimately the answer to
that will be on Friday as well as of
course uh Jolt's data that comes out
tomorrow. Do we have that labor market
impulse that can allow that to continue?
But how much more challenging might this
picture be when it comes to energy
prices, when it comes to how this
infiltrates down to gasoline prices? I'm
not seeing anything tyrron and
Washington agree upon on this moment
besides maybe allowing more vessels to
the straight of moose, which is very
helpful for the energy price. But Iran
this morning, you have a press report
saying that uranium transfer disposal
not in the latest US draft pack. I saw
another report that they will not
entertain the idea of curbing down their
ballistic missile program. So when it
comes to all the president's red lines,
they're not meeting any of
>> I noticed that John Bolton was
criticizing a deal that hasn't been
signed yet. You notice that too? John
Bolton was getting ready to criticize
something that hasn't happened yet. Mark
was sitting here thinking, I wish I wish
this was done and dusted.
>> That's the tripping and he doesn't like
the chirping and that's what we're
hearing,
>> right? Do you think that's what he was
talking about? Maybe.
>> I mean, there's that alone. There's a
lot of it going around. Lots of
chirping. I think he's talking about
Senator Lindsey Graham that the second
he's close to maybe having some sort of
not the end deal on nuclear but a deal
by the street of Hermoose someone says
do not do this then you have other
individual Democrats that are saying all
of this has been a complete mess he's
talking about all the chirping I think
>> you can see why Bolton's upset about
anything anyway given Iran is basically
threatened his life
>> yes as well as threatened the
president's life as well as that a
number of individuals that were there
from Trump won like Brian Hook
individual uals after they went after
Kasumsulammani. You still have the IRGC
saying they want to have revenge for
Trump one when it comes to
Kasumsulammani. And this administration,
I think John Bolton would say that the
regime is intact. This administration
would say the regime has changed, but
John Bolton would say it's still the
same regime just under different
management.
>> Crude up by 3% this morning makes the
Federal Reserve sound like child's play.
Ernest Savanis this morning keeping
credibility at the Fed.
If any administration finds a way to
remove Fed officials over policy
differences, then future administrations
will do so as well. The public would
lose faith that the central bank will
make decisions based only on what's best
for all Americans. The Fed's credibility
would be lost.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
former Federal Reserve chair Jay Pal
saying the central bank has a duty to
safeguard credibility, noting
straightforward legal protections for
the Fed in his first public remarks
since he was succeeded by Kevin Walsh.
Bloomber's Tyler Kendall has the latest
from Washington. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. Well, as you
mentioned, these are those first public
remarks that we've gotten from Fed Chair
Jerome Pal since he was succeeded as Fed
chair, giving us perhaps a little bit
more insight here into why he decided
not to leave public life despite
departing Fed chairs traditionally doing
so. But his comments come with this
added weight considering that we are
waiting imminently for the Supreme Court
to rule on a case related to Fed
Governor Lisa Cook and President Trump's
attempts to oust her. Jerome Powell
mentioned legal protections. We know
that section 10 of the Federal Reserve
Act of 1913 shields any Fed official
from being fired without what's known as
sufficient cause. Though not uh
historically defined, it's typically
been meant to uh be referred to as
malfeasants or neglect of duties related
to the job. Which is why we've seen
Cook's lawyers argue that these
allegations of mortgage fraud against
her are related to a time before she was
fed governor and don't meet that very
high legal bar. Now, Jerome Powell's
comments didn't name names, though, as
you heard, he said it's all about policy
disagreements when it comes to
administration stance against the
central bank, and this administration
has been very forthright with its
comments and its criticism, though
officials have often defended President
Trump's uh decisions to to lobby them
against the Fed chair. Now, John, we
won't get too wonky here. What the
Supreme Court is actually deciding is
whether or not Lisa Cook can keep her
seat for now while the lower courts
decide the actual merits of the case.
But really, they're really closely
intertwined. We could hear as soon as
this Thursday, though, court watchers
say that it will likely come near the
later end of the term, which is later
this month.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest down in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. I think
you can sit here this morning and say
that is not keeping a low profile. You
can question whether you should be
making those comments just a few weeks
ahead of Kevin Walsh's first meeting.
But at the same time, it's difficult to
criticize the guy because he wouldn't be
receiving this reward if it wasn't for
the president's attacks on the
institution. And the former chair
wouldn't be even on the board if it
wasn't for the attacks of the president
on this institution. and Kevin Worsh
would be a completely uncontroversial
pick totally to come in and lead this
institution given the fact that he had
support by plenty of establishment
figures. At a certain point, this is a
controversy of the president's own
making based on his accusations. On the
flip side, does it ultimately matter?
Right now, we're looking at break even
rates. We're not seeing inflation
expectations skyrocket. So, is that the
question around the independence of the
Federal Reserve? There are deeper
questions for the Fed that we should be
discussing. like when the deficit gets
to a certain level, does that compromise
the Fed's independence just naturally?
Because ultimately their policy will set
the interest rate that the rest of us
have to pay. That actually will be more
important to the market because as you
and Jonathan have made the point
consistently, the market does not view
the Fed as not being independent right
now when it comes to president's attack.
They believe in the institution, but all
this might be wrapped up this month
because obviously this is the final
month for the Supreme Court's term. And
as Tyler was talking about there, this
really a lot has has to do with he
didn't mention Trump, but this has to do
with what is going on with Trump
pressuring Lisa Cook and trying to oust
her from her job. My question is when
the Supreme Court rules on this, what is
Jay Powell going to do?
>> Depends what they ruled.
>> Is it time for him to step aside? If
they rule with her, then he will. And if
not, let's see.
>> Sarah Hunter Vali Saxon Woods still with
us. Sarah, let's talk about the
schedule. Payrolls on Friday. Following
week, CPI on Wednesday. Following
Wednesday, Fed decision. How are things
lining up for you?
>> I think that the I mean from a let's go
backwards from a Fed decision
standpoint, I think the odds of doing
nothing are extremely high and it's
really going to be a question of what
the tone is. And to your point earlier,
whether or not we still keep a slight
easing bias or a neutral bias or a
slight hawkish bias, the market is going
to be looking at that very carefully
because interest rates while they don't
actually matter for the spend, there is
a relationship that happens with higher
rates in the equity markets and
technology that don't always acrue well
to investors, right? So, we don't want
to see an enormous we that's that would
be problematic for markets where they
sit right here. I think that the payroll
numbers on Friday are going to look
pretty good and I think that we're still
in that question of what is a good
number versus a bad number. What is
growth versus what we were used to
seeing with a different immigration
picture. So there's a lot of ways to
look at that data and probably you can
find good things and bad things in it.
CPI is going to be really important,
right? Because it's going to be how much
is this translating not just through the
energy picture but into transportation
into higher prices and that's going to
be something that I think is going to be
the most limiting right now on the Fed
than anything else. You're right to draw
a distinction between preparing to
change how you communicate policy and
changing policy. They're clearly not
preparing to change policy anytime soon
based on communication we've had so far.
>> How consequential will a change in
communicating policy be at the June
meeting? Is that consequential? Just
slipping into neutral in a moment like
this.
>> I I think it depends on how far it would
go, right? Because if it sounded
extremely hawkish, then that people
would say that's a really big change. Is
it going to be incremental? How
incremental is that change? and is that
something that we have to be adding to
the list of things that we might be
worried about going down the pike.
Right? So, I don't it's going to be a
question of degree and tone. And if it's
not that wildly of a swing, then I think
it's less consequential. But if it's a
big swing, I think that becomes more of
an issue.
>> Does Governor Pal go before year end?
>> I have no idea.
>> Does it matter?
I'm not sure it matters so much in terms
of how the Fed is going to operate, but
I think from an optics and a clashing
standpoint, it's noisy.
>> It's really noisy. I agree with you,
Sarah Hunt of Alpine, Saxon Wood. Sarah,
thank you. It's getting noisier, not
quieter going into this meeting in a few
weeks time.
>> Yeah. And not to mention just the
economic backdrop, but also of course
the political one. The the market's
moved on. I don't I don't feel like the
market really cares about the personal
drama and the interpersonal play because
they view Kevin Worsh as a viable option
to be Fed chair. They see Governor
Powell as under attack. So they don't
see it as a consequence to policy. I
will say it will be a consequence to
policy though. If you have a jobs figure
that comes in hot, you have inflation
that comes in hot and this Fed still is
reluctant to signal a rate hike. That
will become consequence.
>> So I don't think the market ever cared
to be honest with you. I don't think it
had to move on. It was never on it.
That's my issue with this back and forth
and the noise around it. I don't want
there to be a dependency issue with Pal
and this institution that somehow if he
leaves we've got this massive problem
and the way he communicates around the
issue could in introduce that. I think
>> maybe let's see. I mean ultimately
that's going to be the question. At what
point does the market start caring?
Right now I was looking at Fed funds
futures really quiet not necessarily
suggesting some sort of complete
increase at the long end.
>> Couldn't agree more. The market's just
not there on the issue at all. futures
this morning up a quarter of 1%. Sharon
Miller of Bank of America joins us next.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all. Here's your
price action. Equity futures on the S&P
500 just about positive by a third of
1%. If you find this screen boring,
Brammo can tell you more about how she
did some plumbing over the weekend.
>> I did. I installed some new toilet
fixture. Okay.
>> I was really impressed with I I was
thinking it was like the the pump in
sort of how you like flush the toilet
and
>> you did some like, you know, some legit
plumbing.
>> Some legit plumbing where you have to
like unscrew the bottom. I was like, you
know, if everyone's talking about this
plumbing, I can do it, too. And YouTube
really helps.
>> Supported by YouTube, not Gemini.
>> I mean, I could go to Gemini if you want
to send me your thing. But no, YouTube
has a lot of really helpful videos to to
if you want to do your plumbing
yourself.
>> Okay, good to know.
>> You could you could talk about
>> just a flavor of the very serious
conversations that Bremo's having and
some of the commercial breaks here.
>> Let's turn to the bond market. Yields
look like this. A bit of a bounce. Twos
tens and 30s up by two basis points at
the front end. 4.03%.
Bit of a bounce on crude as well. You'll
notice it on Brent and WTI this morning.
Still no deal. I've forgotten how many
times we've had a deal. I've lost count.
I can go back to maybe April 17th when
the president told us the straight of
Homs was reopening and then it didn't
and it hasn't since over the last
several months.
>> And remember last weekend the president
did miss his son's wedding and said that
he was dealing with Iran and there was
tons of reports coming out and Sunday
night Axios had this report that there
was going to be at minimum an extension
for 60 days and the trade of her moose
would be open, the blockade would lift
and then potentially they would work on
the harder issues. Well, we are a week
into that and nothing has actually
changed. There is one thing you are
seeing more reports even from Iran
itself saying they're allowing some
vessels to go through. The issue is of
course is we can't quantify exactly
what's on that cargo and how much that
is. And that is why it's hard to time
when potentially especially definitely
some parts of the world are going to
come to a place where they are just
really running out of those physical
barrels. Equity futures this morning
firmer by a third of 1% even with that
move in crude as we count you down to
the opening bow 2 hours away. Let's get
you some morning movers some single
names. Yahihara has more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We are seeing Nvidia shares up
2.3% in the pre-market after it unveiled
uh a new processor focused uh for
Windows laptops expanding Nvidia's reach
beyond uh data centers and into everyday
consumer devices. But this will be on
the high end. So, think thin laptops
outfitted with AI capabilities. And we
are also seeing Microsoft shares
rallying nearly 5% in the pre-market
because uh the new chips are being built
for uh the Microsoft's Windows
ecosystem. Also on some bullish comments
on software uh from CEO Jensen Wong,
which we'll get to in a moment. But also
important to note that uh Microsoft and
Nvidia are the only Mac 7 stocks in
positive territory this morning. Uh on
the flip side that Nvidia news is
causing pressure for these names
starting with Intel and AMD. The
Nvidia's new chips of course uh takes
direct aim at the PC market. Uh an area
they've long dominated and Qualcomm is
not escaping the pressure either. Those
shares down 10% uh since AI powered PCs
is an area that Qualcomm has been uh
betting heavily on for future growth. uh
and CEO Jensen Wong is not uh done
moving markets because of him. We are
also seeing a rally in the software
stocks after arguing overnight in Taipei
uh that AI agents will need more
software tools not fewer. So that is
sending shares of service now and
Salesforce uh higher in the pre-market
>> moving equity markets more than the
central bankers are at the moment.
Yhara, thank you. Seems to be the way
right Jensen overnight. It's got a lot
of weight in this stock market.
>> The market's moved on from the Fed.
They're saying you're following us and
in the meantime, we're going to follow
the dancing queen. Yeah, exactly.
>> Very 60s.
>> Okay, very cool. We've all lost it this
morning, haven't we?
>> All right. You're having fun?
>> No. No, I know you jumped in. I have
literally seen the video. I literally
know.
>> And yes, we're having fun.
>> Good. I'm pleased you are. Literally.
All right. On a radar this morning,
President Donald Trump insisting that
talks with Iran over an interim peace
deal will quote work out well. He's
urging Americans to just sit back and
relax. Trump's comments come as both
sides continue sl clashing near the
straight of form. Elsewhere, Nvidia
revealing that anthropic OpenAI SpaceX
will be among the first to use its new
Vera chip. Vera will go into full
production in the third quarter. It's
Nvidia's first standalone data center
microprocessor. And finally, shares of
SKH High, surging 1,000% over the past
year. And the Janice Henderson Global
Technology Fund is planning to buy
shares, betting that a worsening chip
shortage will boost profits even
further.
>> You could say that this is just chasing
the rally. Number one, be skeptical of
this. Or you could say this means that
even though the rally has already been
more than a,000%, there still could be
more to go, which highlights the pain
trade of things going higher despite
some of the skepticism. Just to sort of
uh some context here, this is an $ 8.3
billion fund that has outperformed 96%
of its peers. So it's not exactly coming
from a point of weakness when it comes
to performance.
>> It is interesting though that they
didn't already own so much of this given
the fact that they have Micron, given
the fact they have SanDisk. I do think
it's interesting is when you hear from
the co-manager of of the leaders fund,
the customers are so willing to sign
these contracts on what you think are
fairly draconian terms. I want to know
more about some of these draconian terms
that some of these chip makers are
signing with some of these customers
because seems like it is so dire and
they are just desperate to get their
hands on
>> the move in that stock ever since the
start of this year just hasn't looked
back. I keep returning to the MSEI
emerging market index to get an updated
waiting on things. SKH Highix is almost
7% of that index now. Samsung is close
to 8% of it time when semi close to 15.
So you're looking at like a quarter of
the index in three names. I know I've
repeated that a few times, but when
people say they want to buy EM, buying
EM today means something very different
to what it meant 10 years ago.
>> It's the reason why the South Korean
Cosby is up 102%
so far this year.
>> Crazy. At the halfway point of the year,
just unreal. The impact of AI on the
workforce remaining front and center
ahead of Friday's payrolls report.
>> People talk about AI reducing jobs,
complete nonsense. And the reason for
that is very simple. Because the output
is so incredible, people want to hire
more. This is going to show up in our
economy somehow soon.
>> Bank of America's latest business owner
report finding small businesses are
increasing spending on tech services,
including AI. The team writing the
following. We view this as a
productivity play. Businesses are using
these tools to improve employee
efficiency and add growth. Sharon
Miller, the president and co-head of
business banking at Bank of America,
joins us now for more. Sharon, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Thanks for being
here and sharing this report with us.
I've got one question about this report.
Where are they getting the money to make
these investments? Are they cutting
costs elsewhere? Where's it coming from?
>> Well, we are seeing an investment in AI
and as we look at and technology and
when we look at what's happening in the
overall experience for small businesses,
their spending is up 14% year-over-year
in technology and AI. So they are
repositioning some of those funds to
invest more into technology AI where
that can help them with either their
productivity gains or with you know
marketing all different sorts of things
we're hearing from clients.
>> Does that mean cutting staff when you're
repositioning money?
>> I'm not hearing cutting staff. What I am
hearing is people are holding off on
perhaps adding another person. So, this
is about retaining their client, their
employees that they have today,
res-killing them. We talked about that a
bit at the break. Um, learning some
skilled labor, plumbing. Yeah. Um, that
was good. And I I think that, you know,
at the end of the day, what what I'm
hearing from our clients is that they're
just waiting to see what types of
productivity gains they can have and
what more capacity can they create for
their employees. I hate asking this
question because it sounds very
lightweight, but it's actually
important. How do they feel?
>> How do business owners feel today? I
would say cautiously optimistic. Um, and
and as a small business and and we bank
3.5 million small and mid-size companies
at our at our bank and when I talk to
clients, when I'm in the marketplace,
we're hearing there's there's certainly
concerns. And I hear you guys talk about
that. Gasoline prices, by the way, when
we had our April report, gasoline per
small business client on average was up
31% when you look at that spend. So,
talk about eating into some of the
profits, um, you know, and inflationary
pressures. But as a whole, what we're
seeing is that ingenuity and
repositioning of funds to invest in
technology, AI capability so that they
can do more and be more productive. This
runs counter to the narrative that we
hear from a lot of big box stores and
analysts who cover them who say that
they are uh monopolizing the entirety of
the business that they're gaining share
and you see that with respect to uh just
some of the numbers coming in. They have
uh negotiating power when it comes to
their suppliers. They have economies of
scale when it comes to deploying AI. How
does what you see differ from that
narrative that we hear increasingly from
the Walmarts and Costos etc of the
world? Well, I would say that look,
small businesses and medium-sized
businesses, they do benefit from some of
the downstream impact as well from from
big companies investing into into
communities. You know, there is
competitive advantages when it comes to
being a smaller company, less than 500
employees. You're going to have the
ability to pivot a lot quicker than some
of these large companies. Plus, I think
it's about the communities. And when you
know when I'm out shopping I do think
about how can I connect with my
community help small businesses and that
really helps the economy when you look
at what is really happening in the US
small business that is the backbone of
our US economy creating you know 43% of
jobs in the US and just everything
that's happening within our communities
it's it's really important that we are
supporting them. When you look at some
of the pressures, you mentioned gasoline
and across the United States, it's very
different. We're under $5 a gallon here
on the East Coast, but you look at
Nevada, Washington State, California,
they are north of $5 a gallon. Are you
seeing different risks and pressures to
businesses depending on where they are
across the continental?
>> Yeah. And then also what they do, right?
So, if you're in transportation, if
you're moving goods, agricultural,
you're going to have u more pricing
pressure when it comes to gasoline.
Yeah. I was in California just a week
ago. It was over $7 a gallon. when
you're looking at the price. So, you
know, it does differ in what depending
on what area you're in um and what
industry you're in. But yes, I mean
there's inflationary pressures, no
doubt, and people are looking for ways
to control those costs.
>> Are you seeing inflationary pressures
though outside of that energy need,
>> you know? Yeah, you're seeing some
inflationary Yeah. wages, right? Wage
growth. When you think about wage growth
in the US and and we were talking a
little bit earlier around are they
hiring more? No, I wouldn't say that
they're hiring more than what they have
today. But what I would say on average
is that we're seeing wages go up and
that's pressure on business.
>> Just for the record with regards to
California, Newsome blame Chevron.
Chevron blame Newsome on this program
just on Friday. Hopefully we cleared
that up now, right?
>> There is something everyone can just do
themselves. And the California
Department of Energy has it out on their
website when they take a gallon of
gasoline and they show you how much is
you're paying for and so much of that is
taxes and regulation that is
self-induced by the California
legislature.
>> Similar problem right across the
continent in Europe. Sharon, we had to
Slock of Apollo on the program a little
bit earlier and he was talking about the
amount of people that are starting new
businesses in this country. You seeing
that in signups at the bank as well? Are
you seeing a pickup in business
activity? We are we are seeing um you
know we're we're acquiring new clients.
We're continuing to grow market share
and um business formation is up. So we
do see that and and above really
prepandemic levels. So
>> is it sector specific? What's driving it
in your mind?
>> Well, I think look there are there are
many businesses that are uh that are
being formed that won't have payroll so
to speak. So just you know individual
soloreneurs.
uh when you look at larger businesses,
you know, we're seeing we're seeing
those being formed as well um that are
planning to hire employees, but I do I
do think that business creation
formation that is not down in fact it
has increased and so people are out
there whether it be they have stopped
working in the corporate world getting a
you know looking at entrepreneurship but
but when you think about
entrepreneurship and what's happening
with wealth in the in the US 30% of all
of the wealth is really held with these
entrepreneurs, small and mid-size
businesses. And that's over $22 trillion
as you think about uh what's happening.
And over the next few years, we expect
at least 5 million of those businesses
to either sell or transfer to the next
generation. So, there's a lot going on
in the community, not just because of
formation, but because of succession
planning as well.
>> Just real quick, if the Fed were to hike
rates, would that curtail some of that
activity? you know, I mean, look, we are
at a historical low rate environment
today. Um, we have seen, you know,
credit and and our loan book increase uh
throughout the past. We've been the
number one lender to small businesses in
the US for 19 consecutive quarters.
We've grown our balance sheet every
single quarter and we continue to invest
in the communities.
>> Sharon, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for being here. Thank you. Sharon
Miller there of Bank of America on small
businesses and business formation in
this country. Didn't hate your question
about feelings by the way.
>> Oh, thanks.
>> I think right now sentiment is in focus.
It's going to shape policies and actions
in a number of ways and you can see
sentiment on the consumer side of things
is at rock bottom. So something we all
need to follow.
>> Well, I actually think that small
business uh sentiment is incredibly
important because it dictates whether
they hire, whether they invest, whether
they expand, whether they create new
businesses. So feelings do matter.
>> Feelings always matter. Bra, how do you
feel?
>> I feel great.
>> Feel good. You feel good? We feel good.
Is working. Okay.
>> Good.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Isabelle Lee has more.
Hey, Isabelle.
>> Hi, John. Defense Secretary Pete Heget
avoided mentioning Taiwan during a
speech at the Sharinga Dialogue, seeking
to convince US allies that staying quiet
on Taiwan is the best way to project
American strength. Intel is going after
Nvidia. The Financial Times reporting
the company plans to ship a new AI chip
by the end of this year. The chip will
use cheaper memory and cooling
technology than its rivals. And the New
York Knicks will meet the San Antonio
Spurs in the NBA Finals, a rematch of
1999. The Spurs are looking to return to
the title for the sixth time while the
Knicks are seeking the first
championship in 53 years. Game one is
Wednesday in Texas. That's your
Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Isabelle, thank you. I've sat here
repeatedly and said not a great product
when it comes to the NBA. That is a
great product.
>> It's gonna be amazing.
>> That is going to get a lot of eyeballs
on a lot of TVs.
>> Yeah. It only costs, you know, $500,
$600 for a nose blade seat.
>> It's cheaper if you go.
>> I'm not talking about seats. I'm talking
about as a base content. Yes. I'm glad
that you have come around. I'm glad that
it took a championship.
>> I'm just saying that this is like in an
ideal world for the NBA proof
>> the final they wanted. Exactly.
>> Without a doubt. Up next on the program,
shifting the narrative.
>> It is entirely appropriate for Fed
officials to be thinking about raising
rates. I think you need to have a a
shift in the narrative um from the Fed
that needs to take place.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Ed Alhuseni
of Columbia Thread Needle live from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.
Equity futures right now in the S&P up
by a quarter of 1% up by quarter as well
on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond market
yields with a bit of a bounce following
a bounce in crude as well. two-year
yields high by three basis points under
surveillance this morning shifting the
narrative.
>> It is entirely appropriate for Fed
officials to be thinking about raising
rates. Our view is that the Fed is on
hold, that they are roughly at neutral.
I think you need to have a a shift in
the narrative um from the Fed that needs
to take place. They need to downweight
the idea uh that this is about temporary
forces. They need to downweight the idea
that the labor market is not a source of
inflationary pressures.
>> Here's the latest this morning. Bond
traders looking for strength in Friday's
payrolls report to confirm bets on
future interest rate hikes. Ed Aluseni
of Colombia Thread Needle writing
markets have now repriced the Fed's
terminal rate by a bit under 100 basis
points over the past two months from
around 2.5 cuts at the end of February
to around a hike today. Seems fair to
me. Ed joins us now for more. Ed, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You're sort of endorsing market pricing,
but as a base case, do you expect them
to hike anytime soon? No, I think the
the bar for that is still pretty high,
but it's important for them to create
the permission structure for markets to
price in these hikes.
>> What kind of steps do you think they
take in June to create that permission
structure?
>> Well, the obvious one is removing that
language around the easing bias. I think
that's fully digested by markets at this
point that's been well uh front. But I
think starting the conversation around
what do they see in the inflation story
that's concerning? There are elements
that have to do with the tariff pass
through maybe peaking. There are
elements that have to do with the AI
demand that may just be starting. And
then there are elements that are legacy
from demand over the course of the past
several years showing up in services.
What of these parts of the inflation
basket concerns them at this point?
>> To cite the current Fed chair
inflation's a choice. What part of that
story the inflationary mix right now is
a choice? What do they have control
over? I think ultimately if you take a
step back uh you have to have a theory
of change for inflation. What's driving
it? And the Fed I think correctly has
put the labor market at the center of
that story. So to the extent that
they've tightened policy in the course
of the past 5 years, they've cooled the
labor market, they've brought down wage
growth. That's the key transmission
mechanism here. And so when they look at
the inflation story today, one of the
good elements in the background is that
there isn't a lot of heat in the labor
market. there aren't a lot of factors to
accelerate the inflation push that we're
seeing at the moment.
>> At the same time, you could argue that
there is a financial markets input that
is pretty strong into the inflation
rate, particularly because it's coming
from the higher end because it's coming
from the wealth effect. People feel
richer. They might feel miserable, but
it's good time for shopping therapy. So,
at what point does the Fed want to hike
rates to curtail some of the enthusiasm
if they're seeing that enthusiasm in
markets trickle into inflation?
>> That's a really good point. I think one
of the key debates and we've had folks
like you know Goulsby start to surface
it is how much is the anticipation of
higher productivity bringing forward
demand because if it's significant and
we anticipate this productivity in the
future that's a positive demand shock
that the Fed should start to offset
that's equivalent to the late 90s uh is
is kind of the cleanest analog on the
other hand if inflation I'm sorry if
productivity does not materialize if
we're still uh in the early stages of
anticipating his productivity, then the
demand shock is relatively weak. That's
something we can look through
>> at this point based on the backdrop of a
Fed that probably is going to be pretty
reluctant to hike rates even if there is
a pretty strong labor market. You do
have inflation that continues to run
hotter and the fact that globally you're
seeing investment pretty substantially
coming from governments in a whole host
of different metrics. How much do you
hate long-end bonds?
>> I think long-end bonds have repriced.
It's really interesting if you, you
know, again, zoom out 30-year yields at,
you know, 5% maybe a shade above. Um,
there are two questions to ask. To what
extent is the Fed going to protect the
inflation risk premium further out on
the curve? And I think they've started
to move in the direction of offering
investors that protection, tightening
policy in the front end. Again, the
result here is the yield curve has
started to flatten quite materially. If
you look at those spreads between 5year
yields and 30-year yields, they've
they're now the lowest level in about a
year. That's a meaningful signal that
policy is getting tighter. I like that
as a long bond holder. Uh and so I think
that that risk award is getting a lot
more attractive.
>> Ed, what's different than the peak
productivity boom in 1999?
>> It's hard. So that story, you know, it
begins in the mid 90s, it ends in the
mid 2000s. We still don't have a great I
think answer as to why did it run out of
steam. And so I think the the big
difference today is we're still in the
buildup phase. We're still frontloading
demand in the form of AI investment.
It's not clear that the productivity
boom that is to come is going to be
similar in magnitude or duration. It
could be a lot smaller. Uh it could be a
lot longer. Uh and again these are bets
that the Fed is going to have to chew
through as they make monetary policy.
What do you think the first meeting for
Kevin Walsh looks like?
>> Boy, it's it's really hard. He's got a
long agenda. I think the nice um uh sort
of forcing function here at the start of
his tenure is we have a little bit of an
inflation problem. So, issues around Fed
communication, issues around the Fed
balance sheet in some ways step into the
background. And so it's an opportunity
to focus on the issue at hand, which is
where do we need to set monetary policy
for the next six to 12 months.
>> Are you bearish growth? Just the way you
talked about market pricing being
somewhat tight and being encouraged by
where we were at the long end, I just
wondered if you're bearish on growth.
>> I think it's one of the strongest sort
of consensus points of the market is
that growth is very solid for the
foreseeable future and that the labor
markets have stabilized. Um if there is
a lesson from the course the past
several years is we can be surprised in
both fronts. Uh I think the pricing
whether you look at equity markets or
the through the lens of credit spreads
the pricing for growth is very healthy.
There's a lot more room to be surprised
to
>> risks are underpriced. Interesting Ed.
Thank you. A lot to think about there.
Edosani there of Columbia Thread Needle.
Just how things were building up in that
conversation. That's kind of where my
mind started to go. I immediately went
to the two-year 10-year yield curve, of
course, because that's what he
mentioned. And it is near the lowest
level, the the flattest level going back
about a year at 42 basis points. Gives
you a sense that people are starting to
think of this if you just look at
historical reference points as a
tightening in the front of the yield
curve, which makes sense based on some
of the the rhetoric. You just wonder
also if you're a contrarian, that is the
most contrarian point of view to take
agree because everybody thinks that this
economy is going to grow and that growth
is going to surprise to the upside.
difficult to find anyone who wants to
take the under on growth right now.
Yeah.
>> Like most people are pretty bullish. The
engines for growth are race insensitive
etc etc. We've heard it all before.
>> Yeah. How one big beautiful bill, you've
got AI sort of price insensitive buyer.
You've got earnings going through gang
busters kinds of levels. So all of a
sudden people are feeling really really
really really bullish.
>> Interesting trade. Coming up, Peter
Chair of Academy. Plus we'll catch up
with Kristen Caligus Roland of JP Morgan
Private Bank, Nancy Lizar of Piper
Sandler and Noah Weissberger of BCA
Research. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance up next.
>> The equity market's been super
optimistic. Earnings have been quite
strong.
>> Investors have never been richer and
more miserable.
>> You're in a high-risisk bull market.
>> The big big issue is positioning. So
positioning overall still is pretty
subdued.
>> Just stay involved and look how your
equities have done.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores look like this. Record
highs coming into Monday. Once more,
equities adding some weight to the
rally, up by a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500. on the NASDAQ up by 0.2. Bit of
weakness on small caps maybe off the
back of this move in the bond market.
Yields creeping a little bit higher at
the front end of the curve by three
basis points this morning. Off the back
of this move in energy, Brent and WTI
bouncing following further strikes over
the weekend at the absence of a deal up
by 3% this morning. Got Brent just short
of 94 going into a week ahead full of
economic data. The headline act later
this week is Friday. It's the payroll
report. This is an incredibly important
payroll report. First of all, it is the
last payrolls report ahead of the first
meeting for Fed Chair Kevin Worsh, which
is going to be instrumental in setting
policy given the fact that we've had
inflation uh above target for more than
5 years inflecting in the wrong
direction. People are saying, well, it's
because of oil prices and that's
transitory. That dreaded T-word coming
back into play. If you have a hot labor
market, that becomes less transitory.
And suddenly if people are looking at
wages that are growing at a little bit
faster clip, everyone's asking for a
raise, taking Jonathan Pharaoh's advice.
All of a sudden you have a little bit of
an issue that the worst Fed has to deal
with. This is going to be a very
important labor market report, not just
for the Federal Reserve, but also the
administration, which is trying to go
into we're just really peak election
season ahead of the midterm elections
this summer. and they're trying to
really job bone the market and the
president Kevin Hasset, Scott Bess and
the treasury secretary constantly say
that oil prices are going to drop and
they're not right now. They're rising
across the continental United States and
until they get a deal potentially we are
going to hit very low inventory levels
and we can see skyrocket of energy
prices. The one thing that they do have
though is a low unemployment rate and
that is why it's so important.
>> Back yourself don't let your employer
have the leverage. Believe in yourself.
>> So ask for that race. Fed officials,
Kevin Worsh, you can call up Jonathan
Pharaoh and tell him what you think of
that.
>> Economists are the only people on the
planet worried about higher wages,
>> right?
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Name one group of individuals worried
about higher wages.
>> Exactly. The same Yes.
>> Employers maybe have to give them out.
>> As for a raise, it's just a question
about how much you're going to get tax
on the other end of it.
>> Economists should be the ones that take
waste deductions every year. They
started this. Economists have mentioned
over the weekend in the different uh
various trips that they all take, they
don't think that they're going to be
made obsolete.
>> Have you noticed that?
>> Because of artificial intelligence
raik
or in you know Serbia or wherever they
were.
>> What a fed official was doing in Rekovic
Iceland.
>> I think that this one was in Croatia.
>> Oh, this was in Dravnik.
>> Yeah, this is the Dravnik seminar that
John Williams was talking about. How
>> a fed official was doing in Dravnik.
>> It's actually beautiful. Especially if
you like Game of Thrones, they have some
beautiful today. Uh I think that a lot
of it No, but I've seen that's where
they've
>> looked into it.
>> Yeah, they that's where a lot of it was
filmed
>> going this summer.
>> There you go. You see, you're both
bullish your your jobs as you should be.
Coming up, Peter Chit of Academy
Securities with Stock signing an eighth
straight day of gains. Kristen Caligus
Roland of JP Morgan on investing in the
next generation of AI winners and Noah
Weissberger of BCA research on how AI is
rewarding reinvestment over returns. We
begin this out with stocks building on
record highs and crude rebounding from
six week lows. Peter Cherv Academy
writing the higher for longer theme for
energy prices will sink in and start to
price itself into markets even more.
Pete joins us now for more. Pete, good
morning.
>> Morning.
>> Price itself in in what way? Into growth
expectations or even more into inflation
expectations?
>> I think into inflation expectations
pushing bond yields higher and again I
think you've been pointing out right the
stock markets are at all-time highs. If
you strip away the AI story, stocks
haven't. So they've already been pricing
in some of this. So I think that
affordability risk is there a little bit
in stocks. You have to look through to
the various subcomponents to see it. I
think that continues and unfortunately I
think it gets worse cuz unlike what
they're saying I keep looking at the
January futures contract for oil. It's
you know right around 80. It has not
dropped much at all. So all of a sudden
you know this whole kind of concept that
we had two months ago where by the end
of August things would be normalizing. I
I don't think we're normalizing anytime
soon and this is still hasn't fit the
economy fully.
>> Straight shut for 3 months. We've had a
bit of leakage but all but closed for
three months. We've had a move of about
60 basis points at the front end of the
curve. So two-year yields have been
higher. What more do we need to do on
the rate side?
>> I think we are probably going to see
five on tens before we see 4% on 10. I
think you're just going to see global
bond yields under pressure. Everyone has
to spend on defense. Everyone has to
build out their industrial base.
Everyone's got to build out electricity
and energy prices. People are feeling
that pinch. So I think global bond
yields are going higher. We're going to
face that. And I think we're at the
point if we get too much dovish talk out
of the Fed, they will lose some control
over the long end of the yield curve.
That was not my view back in February
before we started the invasion. But now
everything that's going on tells me that
if we try and, you know, jaw own about
rate cuts, we're going to lose a little
bit of control at the long end.
>> You know, I was reading your note and I
was a little bit pessimistic and we'll
get into horses and whether we're the
horse in just a second, but actually
it's making me really optimistic to hear
you say this because you still think
that growth will surprise to the upside.
Ed Hall Husseini was on and he thought
that actually the bigger risk right now
was growth surprising to the downside
and the possibility that bonds would
actually be a buy here. Why do you
disagree with that?
>> One is I think people underestimate the
data center and AI just the amount of
jobs that are being created to build
this out, right? The chip industry is
you know going like gang busters. The
construction business going extremely
well. The electricity generation
business going phenomenally well. So I
think ultimately it's somewhat weird is
I think you create a lot more jobs to
build out the data centers. Then once
the data centers area is up and running
those particular places don't have that
much employment but to get there this
buildout I think it's been very good
it's been very good for logistics it's
very good for you know the cats the
deers of the world who provide things
for them
>> yeah and this is a reason why you are
seeing some job growth in places like
construction and manufacturing as well
as uh in other uh related areas to of
Apollo was on earlier saying that he saw
job growth actually expanding across
different types of sectors as a result
of artificial intelligence let's get to
the horses you think that if you create
an analogy to the horse and buggy, it's
unclear whether horse and buggy or
automobile to human is uh the right
analogy or whether it's automobile to
horse. Are we the horses?
>> That's my concern. I think you know you
start any business class, they always go
through the buggy whip and what happened
to buggy whip manufacturers who all had
great jobs until the automobile. But the
automobile was great for the country,
right? It was great for everyone. There
was huge efficiencies the automobile
industry. I look like are we the horses
though? Are they actually trying to
replace humans this time? There were 25
million horses before the automobile.
There's about seven million. Now, when
you read about it, the horses today have
a much better life. They don't do any
hard work. They sit there and, you know,
they graze. They go, people ride them
here and there. But, so, you know, maybe
we all need UBI. But again, I'm not as
convinced at this point that this is
going to be great for jobs. I I can see
that argument, but I also see like this
is the first time I've really seen a
technology, I think, that's going after
all our jobs in a different way.
>> But there is also a counterargument to
this. Before Uber was coming into a lot
of cities, there was people protesting
reg people were saying we need more
regulation because it's going to mean
that basically in New York City taxi
drivers will be obsolete. But now what
you have in New York City today is more
drivers than ever. Uber lift plus the
taxi drivers. Isn't that
counterintuitive?
>> You know, I think one thing I've
certainly noticed the price has gone way
up, right? There was a price cutting
where everything went down and now I
pull up my Uber app. I'm like, "Oh man,
I better take the train home. I can't
afford to take the Uber home." So, you
know, there's been some of that driving
or taxis in New York City. It changed it
and again I think all the taxis adapted
to an Uberl like sort of thing. So it's
grown. It's good. Um but again like
that's one job and again that was it
didn't feel like it was revolutionizing
anything. It was still how you get your
taxi. Instead of sticking up your hand
you use an app. There were things that
allowed people to take advantage of
that. The other part of this is you know
I think everyone's talking about oh
people are trying to create jobs. I'm
not sure becoming an Uber driver and
things like that is the same sort of job
level as when someone starts a bakery or
something where they're going to employ
three to five people. So I'm a little
bit skeptical. Birth death model once
again this year is a big part of job
growth and for the last three years
birth death model has played a role and
then they wiped down the jobs by 750,000
to a million because these aren't the
same sort of you know new company
formation that we had in the past.
>> UBI how costly is this going to be?
Where's the money coming from? You know,
I it was some of those things I've
really tried to avoid thinking about
universal basic income. It kind of just
gets me wrong and then all of a sudden
two weeks ago, okay, I better start
writing about this at least a little
bit. South Korea seems to be the first
ones that are kind of pushing that
direction, right? They are their economy
is so bipolar, right? It's like you've
got this memory and the chips. I just
crushing it. Absolutely crushing it. The
rest of the economy, I don't know, you
know, they're benefiting, but clearly
there's some degree of willingness to
share these profits. I feel like the
biggest threat right now in the US to AI
data center story, it's not the use,
it's not corporations not wanting it.
It's politicians trying to latch on to
some of this negative sentiment either
about the electricity generation, the
electricity usage, or the jobs. And I
feel this is going to be a political
risk more than anything. Maybe that's
why I kind of mentioned UBI.
>> Who's got the appetite to raise
corporate taxes?
>> Well,
>> could that become a bipartisan issue?
you know, who thought we'd have a mayor
in New York that on many times seems,
you know, very socialist to say the
least. Um, so yeah, I I could see some
>> that's what I'm watching for. Just if
the Republican party starts to get
starts to get along with the idea that
that's the next step of populism, that
you have to do something about corporate
taxes.
>> Or maybe it's the Democrats. I feel like
there's something bubbling below this
that is there's something unfair about
what's going on with AI and electricity.
I don't think it is at all. It fits our
exact theme that we need to be good at
data centers. need to be good at AI
chips, building out electricity. I think
we're seeing a re-industrialization. I
think it's great for the heartland of
America where you're seeing this growth
between the Appalachians and the
Rockies, but politicians do seem to be
trying to latch on to something. And
just the sentiment two weeks ago when
all we were talking about was every
commencement speech where someone
mentioned AI was almost booed off the
stage. Maybe that's a bit extreme, but
that there is something bubbling and it
feels like the sort of thing some
politician could latch on to and this
UBI seems popular some people. So that
to me would be the derailment is this
becomes a big election issue.
>> Well, there's massive backlash and you
have the extreme right and the extreme
left want to do things like taxing
Bernie Sanders and Steve Bannon. So this
is going to be not just a midterm
election issue but 2028
to John's point. What happens if you see
policy
that's directed at these companies?
>> Then I again I think you're going to see
a little bit which countries across the
globe rush to take this in. Again, the
Saudis and other countries in the Middle
East wanted to become the data center
caps of the world. That's kind of been
derailed a little bit, certainly since
the fighting. Depends what sort of peace
agreement you wind up with. If you have
a peace agreement where um Iran still
has the ability to have a lot of
missiles and can threaten the Middle
East, it probably doesn't grow there. If
not, maybe they invite this. So, I think
there's going to be a lot of political
wrangling. And some of this is even
good. you know, Canadian when they say
we're having some interesting
conversations and Canada actually gets a
doover and we kind of screwed up LG in
Canada 15 years ago. It could have been
us or the US. The US has been phenomenal
at it, right? It's grown out. Canada
kind of got mired in regulation, but all
of a sudden with demand from Europe and
other places who want to maybe void
Middle East. There are these huge
opportunities and again I think it's all
around this electricity generation the
re-industrialization the data centers
and AI and you're going to see I think
even in the US state by state who rolls
out the red carpet or who keeps the red
tape and that's going to determine the
winners or losers for the next 10 years.
>> Do you think Prime Minister Mark
Carney's figured that out?
>> I doubt it. Um though he has made some
improvements. I think he's seeing
summit. I think you're okay. Again I
I'll go back to you know the president
says lots of things. The one thing that
I kind of remember in the last few
months is when he chastised the leader
of Scotland and said, "You buy North Sea
oil from Norway. You buy turbines from
China. You have your own North Sea oil
that you don't use." That seems idiotic.
So, I keep coming back. I think they're
going to unleash the petroleum and
energy companies in Europe. We're
probably still months away, but even
there, I was just in London. The concept
of a changing view of ESG to be much
more true sustainability and resilience,
it's developing. It's not there, but
it's coming.
>> It's interesting to track the politics
of the left on this issue and how things
are shifting pretty quickly.
>> It's out of necessity. It's out of the
reality of the moment. I will just say
when you talk about UBI and some of
these populist measures, the US isn't
going to be the first place. I was
speaking to the Thailand and the uh
Turkish finance ministers, they're
talking actively and verbally about some
sort of universal.
>> You got breaking news, Bre.
>> I'm not saying I'm not saying I've got
breaking news. This is a couple of
months ago, but there is that discussion
happening around the world and there are
a number of countries that don't see the
benefits as much as the potential
pernitious impacts uh on their economies
and those might be some of the first
movers.
>> I just hate the idea and I hope this is
not the world we're going to, but I hate
the idea of having this centralized
power down in the nation's capital who
gets to decide what everybody earns
because there are no jobs. That sounds
like a terrible future to me. If you
take aspiration out of society and
wanted to climb the ladder, out of
American culture, is that the world we
want to go into in the next 20 years? Do
you remember that line from from Reagan
where he said the scariest words in the
world were, you know, I'm from the
government. I'm here to help.
>> I'm a tech bro, trust me, they're the
words that are scaring me right now.
>> Yeah. The idea of work as purpose is
something that's really been at the
underpinning of the nation. So the idea
that we'll just give a payment to
everybody and that's going to fly, it
doesn't have the same kind of
palatability as it does in other places
that are more perhaps uh amendable to
that kind of idea. That's why I say look
outside the US for that kind of mover uh
that type of first mover. That said,
we're a long way from getting there.
Even the fear of that's going to drive
policy before we get there and that I
think is what people are looking for
right now.
>> Pete, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir. Peter chair of
Academy Securities. thought Bremo was
breaking news on Turkey just a moment
ago.
>> No, no. I'm just saying that there was
an entertaining of that idea much more
than US officials currently.
>> Just in case you're into
>> it was not breaking. Don't know. Please
do note.
>> Let's keep you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Isabelle Lee has more.
Hey Isabelle.
>> Hey John. Iranian officials addressing
the status of peace talks claiming that
quote transfer or disposal of its
nuclear material is no longer in the
latest US draft. Thran also saying the
ceasefire is in effect on all fronts,
including in Lebanon, and that the US
and Israel are responsible for any
violations.
In his first public comment since being
succeeded by Kevin Walsh, former Fed
Chair Jerome Powell highlighted the
importance of central bank independence.
Powell said the Fed would lose
credibility if any president were free
to dismiss Fed officials over policy
disagreements. and Nvidia unveiling
Vera, a new CPU aimed at energy
efficient data processing. CEO Jensen
Huang shared that Enthropic, OpenAI, and
SpaceX are among some of the first
biggest users of the new microprocessor.
The new product will go into full
production later this year. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Isabelle, thank you. But he's still
dancing still.
>> I like this dance.
>> Look, I said he looked pretty cool.
>> He did,
>> you know, in a traditional kind of way.
Just the fact that he's he's enjoying
himself. Yeah, he was enjoying himself.
Who's he who's at the party and joins
himself?
>> Have you got the mug ready?
>> Took the leather jacket off. Yeah, we're
waiting for a bump shot.
>> AMH
>> positions the mug so it gets the shot.
>> We need good
>> commercial break.
>> We need good, you know,
>> and partners with the cameraman to make
sure it gets picked up.
>> I was trying to do it without anyone
noticing and John picked up.
>> Yeah, of course. Up next, your morning
calls plus Kristen Caligus Roland of JP
Morgan Private Bank on fighting the next
generation of AI winners from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Initially the AI boom will certainly be
inflationary. It's very clear when you
look at semiconductor prices, when you
look at energy prices, when you look at
labor also of course when you look at
the broader equipment prices, it is also
very clear that this is going to be
inflationary on top of the upward
pressure on inflation coming from the
lacked effects of tariffs and of course
also higher energy prices. Toss lock of
Apollo on the program a little bit
earlier on this morning. If you're just
joining us, good morning to you. The
price action, the score is shaping up as
follows. Futures on the S&P 500 adding
some weight to the rally up by 0.2% 2%
this morning following a 7-day winning
run on the S&P. A 9-w weekek winning
streak on the S&P 500. One of the
longest streaks we've seen going back to
the mid80s if we make it week 10 on the
NASDAQ 100 this morning. Just about
positive with this move in the bond
market. Yields higher across the curve,
particularly at the front end up by
close to three basis points. 4.03% on a
2-year note this morning. Off the back
of this move in crude, WTI and Brent
higher this morning by close to 3%.
Brent crude at 9363.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls. First up, Barclay's
initiating coverage on IBM with an
overweight rating seeing a stable growth
engine around its very defensible
software portfolio. Your second call
from Missouo raising its price target on
AMD to 615 from 515 saying AI should
drive demand higher. And your third and
final call from the team at Morgan
Stanley upgrading Dow to equal weight
saying the company is maintaining the
semi-upply chain shortage better than
its peers. Bit late on that one,
>> especially since those shares have been
higher uh than a lot of people, but it
highlights how there still is upside
that people are seeing right now despite
the rallies.
>> Not to throw shade. I know that was
throwing shade, but all these analysts,
many of them have struggled to keep up
with the earnings momentum of many of
these stories, which is unusual to say
the least,
>> and why a lot of people are still
bullish even though the gains have been
eye popping to say the least.
>> I should get more sleep. That stock is
up by more than 1%. Investors eyeing the
next leg of the AI trade as the focus
shifts to the physical buildout. Kristen
Caligus Roland of JP Morgan private bank
writing, "Power is the bottleneck and
private infrastructure is central. Major
value creation of nextgen AI winners is
happening before the IPO. Kristen joined
us now for more. Kristen, good morning.
Good to see you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> That last line is so important. I'm
going to talk about SpaceX. You don't
have to. SpaceX founded 24 years ago. So
much value creation has already happened
for so many of these names. Is that
beyond just the three big IPOs people
are expecting this year? I do think that
the shift in the private markets and the
ability to build these companies is
something that can't be done in the
public markets which is why within the
world of artificial intelligence when we
have these tectonic shifts everyone's
trying to figure out what's the best way
to access that and I think a couple
years ago most folks looked at the mag 7
and others and thought that was a easy
and efficient way to access and I think
some of these now platform companies are
making us rethink given that the S-curve
is happening pre-IPO that maybe the
attention should be shifting to private
markets so especially in a world of AI
AI where there's platforms being
created. I think people are looking at
the private markets and saying maybe
there are other things that we should be
thinking about as these builds keep
happening.
>> How crowded is that trade already given
the fact that this has been going on for
quite a while?
>> It's a good question. I mean I I think
in private markets you would say um
everyone used to talk about the unicorns
companies that were worth more than a
billion dollars. Now people are talking
about the decacorns because when you
look at the unicorns there are $4
trillion of them. Interestingly though,
if you look at where the concentration
happens, almost 80% of unicorns are in
platform companies, about two dozen of
them. So, think of the SpaceXes of the
world. And so, I think there's still a
lot taking place where it might take 24
years for a SpaceX to get to where they
are today. But I do think AI is
accelerating that shift in a lot of
these places where there is the
bottleneck of what happens to the future
of AI. So,
>> one of the risks in private markets has
always been that for every SpaceX or
OpenAI or Anthropic, there are about 150
different companies that have failed and
lost everyone's money. And at what point
do you see that kind of risk increasing
given the uncertainty of the destination
and what's going to ultimately work?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think the reality is in
the private markets, everyone thinks
that it's hard to be, you know,
disciplined around risk. And the reality
is now people are raising so often. the
capex needs for AI are so huge that when
you go to raise that next round it's not
happening a couple years later it's
happening six months later or nine
months later so if you don't hit those
marks the reality are you don't get that
next funding round so I do think the
opportunity set is huge I think the
dollars at work is large as well but I
do think the people that are you know
the working versus not working and how
quickly that's taking place and being
caught is actually happening faster than
I would have thought
>> I know I know you're also focused on
fragmentation around the world and the
price of security. Is that also where
you're seeing a lot of money being
spent?
>> Well, it's interesting because if you
think about AI, one of those next layers
when you think about the move into
physical AI and the need for security
and resiliency. I mean, the reality is
is that global fragmentation is
providing more opportunity sets in the
private markets because you have Europe
that needs to increase defense spending.
That's happening probably two to three
times as to what they've done. You have
the US that trade policies are changing,
you know, durable realignment to figure
out where where that's going to, you
know, provide opportunities. And then
you have China that's trying to figure
out how to become, you know, energy and
resource independent. So all of those
things, I think, are creating a world,
the world is becoming more globally
fragmented and so are the private
markets because people are trying to
find solutions in every pocket of this,
which is pretty fascinating to watch.
>> Is that a world that's getting more
expensive?
>> Is what? Say it again.
>> Is that a world that's getting more
expensive? that shift from globalization
to fragmentation
>> likely and I think it's one where a lot
of our clients are concerned about
things like inflation and what's what
that's going to mean in the portfolios
and figuring out am I positioned
appropriately for it. I think when we
look at even our own client base 20% of
our assets under supervision are still
held in cash and I think people need to
think about what is the impact of
inflation. Um, and I also think a lot of
folks look at things like infrastructure
and recognize the ability for that to
provide some inflation protection, but
the reality is 80% of our largest
families still have no allocation to
infrastructure. So, there's a lot of
conversations that we're having right
now to say, what are the impacts? Where
can the private markets provide those
opportunity sets, but how are you
actually positioning your portfolios?
And we'll see uh how that plays out over
the coming months as people understand
more of the implications of AI.
>> Kristen, this was smart bit of a clinic.
Appreciate it. Thank you. Appreciate
you.
>> Thank you. Kristen Caligghus Roland
there of JP Morgan Private Bank.
Whenever we talk about that, I always
think about the bond piece of the
portfolio.
>> Well, my main question was the same one
as Sharon Miller, which is all this
enthusiasm is any of it going to change
if the Fed were to hike rates, right?
Because ultimately, if you end up with a
more inflationary backdrop and this need
an existential need for capital, does a
rate hike change anything in this? And
the answer is no. At least not for
Sharon Miller. And it seems similar in
this case. So you just have to wonder
what's the obstacle. I don't this is a
fascinating morning.
>> It's not going to reshape the capex
intentions of an alphabet or a Microsoft
anytime soon
>> or an entire country or continent
>> to that point too by extension. Coming
up, Nancy Lazar piper sampler on whether
inflation has peaked in the United
States. Plus got some morning movers for
you. Nvidia unfanning a new chip for
PCs. That stock is up at a pre-market by
more than 2%.
7 days no losses on the S&P 500. Haven't
had a weekly loss going all the way back
to March. Unreal. Equities this morning
on the S&P 500. Positive again. We're up
by 0.2% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ up
by.15.
Let's get you some single names. Some
morning movers. Yhira has more. Hi
Yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with our big mover of
the day. Um Nvidia, those shares are up
2.2%
in the pre-market after the chip giant
unveiled a new AI processor designed for
Windows laptops and expanding Nvidia's
reach beyond data centers into consumer
devices. The Windows connection also
helping to lift uh Microsoft shares up
nearly 4% in the pre-market. But that
also getting a second boost uh from
comments from CEO Jensen Wong over in
Taipei overnight saying that AI agents
will need uh more software tools not
fewer. So that is helping to lift uh
software stocks this morning as well
like Salesforce. Uh turning to MGM,
those shares are soaring nearly 15% in
the pre-market as the New York Times
reports that Barry Diller is preparing
an $18 billion bid for the for the
casino giants. He already owns uh
roughly a quarter of MGM and has called
the company's casinos and hotels uh hard
assets that serve as a hedge in an
increasingly unpredictable world. It's a
bet that has been working with those
shares up uh 20% ahead of this move this
year. Uh and we have two catalysts
helping to lift uh IBM shares. We'll
start with a more practical reason,
which is Barclay's issuing its first
rating on the stock, marking it a buy.
Uh, now the more unusual one.
Apparently, an old video of President
Donald Trump uh praising IBM CEO uh
resurfaced over the weekend. He also
said the stock could go a lot higher
from here. So, that is helping share
sore more than 9%.
>> Yeah, thank you. Appreciate it. Can we
do two things? Can we bring up MGM again
and then take CAM 2 just as you bring
the stop? Just take cam 2. Bring up
Brammo. That's the Bremo cam. Cam 2 is
Brammo's face when that stock came up.
You got thoughts, Lisa?
>> Well, it's just that when I saw the
headline that People Inc. was buying
MGM, this was like a GameStop moment
that GameStop was going to buy what uh
what was were they going to buy Shopify
or something. I mean, they were going to
buy eBay, whatever. The same. No, it's
totally different. But you my point
being they were going to buy eBay and it
just seemed like, you know, the minnow
was buying the shark, right? And it's
sort of people inc well do we actually
can imagine that buying uh MGM which has
physical assets etc. Then it was Barry
Diller and so then I went down a rabbit
hole of you know where this is going to
be financed and that's where my mind was
going. So I was just thinking a magazine
buying a
>> you know casino empire. It just seemed
strange to me.
>> You're suggesting sign of Throth. Where
are you taking this?
>> I just it's a fascinating tie-up in this
world of new creations.
>> Nice. Okay. Very diplomatic. Appreciate
it. It's like a generic magazine you
don't want to read.
>> I just
You just think about people like you
think about picking up People magazine.
You don't think about People magazine
going out and buying the casino and the
hotel empire.
>> True. You don't.
>> But this is the world that we're living
in.
>> It caught your eye. Caught my eye too.
>> I think it's interesting.
>> Just wanted your response to it. That's
watching you hire talk about it and then
>> Well, I I'm also reading about, you
know, the concept of what this physical
hard assets are and the idea that it
could be recession proof because people
feel so desperate that they come and
they gamble.
>> I'll tell you what I was reading. Amarie
sent me this moment ago from Kick Jukes.
Arsenal played football like the ECB
have set to run monetary policy. I
thought was particularly notable.
>> Pretty harsh.
>> I've spoken like someone who spent their
Saturday.
>> If you're not interested in either,
badly seems to be the connection between
the two. A steady week of data building
up to Friday payroll report. Fed
officials growing increasingly cautious
on the outlook for rates and the economy
too. Bloomberg's Ander Curran joins us
now for more. And welcome to the
program. When we talk about being
cautious on the economy, one very
specific part of the economy, the
outlook for inflation and uh what kind
of changes are you expected to see in
the data this week and how will they
inform this Federal Reserve meeting two
weeks Wednesday?
>> Well, it's a really critical week. As
you mentioned, we have several private
indicators on the employment market,
John. They're all expected to show that
the jobs market's in good health. We
have a reading on on the construction
sector, manufacturing sector, h the
Fed's beige book where they go out and
talk to business people around the
country. All of those are expected to
send mixed signals, but broadly
speaking, one of okay activity and all
of that builds into then all important
payrolls data on Friday. There we're
expecting the unemployment rate of 4.3%
and a jobs increase of around 89,000.
Now, if that comes in at that level, it
would take the three-month average to
the highest in a year. And then you're
not talking about a stabilizing labor
market. You're possibly talking about an
accelerating labor market. And people
are looking for jobs gains quite
broad-based. It's a health care sector.
It's leisure. It's construction uh and
also manufacturing because of the
inventory buildup due to the Iran war.
So, if it all plays out like that, at
the end of the week, we'll be saying the
labor market's in good shape. Certainly,
policy makers won't be worrying about
the jobs market. They will be keeping an
eye on inflation which is what they have
been warning about in the last few weeks
>> and for the last few years the way the
year has mapped out has basically
started the year with worries about
inflation got into the summer worried
about the labor market got into
September and started cutting interest
rates just how this year's building up
ended it feel slightly different
>> it does feel different John it feels
like things have the pendulum has swung
back to the inflation story we saw what
happened with the PCE last week
especially on the annual basis and it's
not expected to get much softer in the
months ahead And remember, it's not just
the Iran war story anymore. It's also
the AI buildout. And even though that's
well understood, there's a feeling that
that AI buildout's accelerating and
having an even greater impact now on
inflation in terms of inputs and the
kind of the cost of products involved in
that process. So, it's bubbling up to
this story that at the very least
there's upward pressure on inflation to
the point where policy makers not
necessarily hiking. I don't think that's
people's base case yet, but certainly
the idea of a Federal Reserve rate cut
this year, the hopes for that have
greatly diminished, John, and it's a
question I think of here of treading
water to see whether or not we do reach
a tipping point later in the year where
the policy makers do have to move on the
upward side.
>> And they're looking forward to the
coverage from you and the team
throughout the week down in Washington
and the current there down in the
nation's capital. Nancy Lazar Piper
Sandler with a bullish outlook on the
economy writing along with employment
entering a sustained expansion. At the
same time, inflation is probably
peaking. Nancy joins us now for more.
Nancy, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> Put those two things together. So,
you've got employment entering a
sustained expansion, but you've also got
inflation peaking.
>> So, we're still early cycle when it
comes comes to the labor market. And so,
we're over the past three months, we've
averaged only 50. That's probably going
to continue to grind higher.
Unemployment rate has just peaked. So,
wage inflation is still more in a
slowing trend than an accelerating
trend. That doesn't happen until after
the labor market really gets hot. So,
we're just now moving into a period
where people are going, "Yeah,
employment starting to uh broadly
broadly improve kind of moving away from
the AI headwind, moving away from young
grads not being able to get a job." So,
we're still early cycle and that makes
it easier for inflation to slow. And
then at the same time, you know, talk
about AI and the inflationary effects. I
just disagree with that. I know price
certain price levels are going up within
the tech space. Got it. You saw it in
the PCE deflator uh in in April. That's
not inflation. That's a price shock. And
price shocks are attacks. And if one
price goes up, another price goes down.
Andor you get a shift down in the demand
for some of those products. And indeed,
consumer spending, real consumer
spending on tech products is in a
declining trend because of those price
those price increases. And then you've
got some unique events going on. Uh the
tariff rate has peaked because of the
Supreme Court ruling. You're getting
tariff refunds. Walmart, I think last
week, suggested they are actually going
to lower prices in part because of those
tax those tax uh those tax refunds. So
tariffs uh and mo most importantly to me
and I sound like a broken record to many
of you, it's that uh inflation is always
a monetary phenomena. Money growth has
has has slowed significantly was over
double digit back in 2021. Government
spending, federal outlays have actually
stalled out. You saw that in the GDP
data also in the first quarter. So very
very different monetary fiscal backdrop
uh which is also conducive actually to
slower inflation.
>> The people who would beg to differ would
say you've seen margin expansion at
companies. You've had retailers
outperform. You have earnings outperform
once again and that services in
particular you've seen prices increase
actually pretty steadily throughout the
year and at a steadily increasing pace.
How do you counter that and say that's
not enough to give you a sense that
there really is some sort of inflation
problem? The consumer is negatively
reacting to those increases in the
service prices. Airfares are obviously
up as we all know, but real consumer
spending on airfares have actually
stalled out, gone down. Same with
hotels. And so in 2020, 2122 certainly
there's pent-up demand, but also
consumers nominal income growth was 10%.
So they could pay these higher prices.
Now consumers can't. It's more of a tax
on the consumer than it is a sustained
shift up a sustained shift up in price.
companies are t trying and and profit
margins being a record high is a good
thing, not a bad thing. That's the only
way you're going to get a sustained job
cycle. If companies are making money,
then employment increases. If companies
aren't making money, then employment
decreases. So, it is a very interesting
stage of the business cycle.
>> Is this a good jobs recovery? Is this a
good jobs market given the fact that
there have been fears that people will
be able to get jobs, but they're not the
jobs that they want. They're not the
jobs that have the same kind of uh wages
that they're looking for.
>> I'm very excited about this job market.
We are shifting back into more
bluecollar goods producing jobs which we
destroyed after China joined WTO which
destroyed a whole part of this country.
I talk a lot about this. I was just in
the Midwest last week. It's fantastic to
see the the rejuvenation in that part of
the in that part of the country. White
collar uh job growth is going is going
to continue. The unemployment rate for
college grads um is about 3% uh 3
percentage points higher than older
college grads. It's always 3 percentage
points higher. It's always a more
difficult market for younger grads to uh
to to to get it to to to get a job.
There will always be white collar jobs,
but the most important thing is that we
are broadening out the labor market
where goods producing jobs are now going
to be an important driver and and
outside of the Northeast and the
Midwest, pardon me, and the West Coast,
that's where the bulk of the job jobs
are. So, it's it's actually a healthier
labor market, one of the healthiest
labor markets I've seen in in decades.
>> Could both grow or do services jobs,
some of these white collar jobs actually
need to decrease in order to see a
renaissance of what you're describing
for blue collar?
>> Well, you you you are going to get
creative destruction again within the
back office. There was an article last
week about how back office employment is
indeed going to decline. Uh it's
declined my entire career. Uh because
technological innovation is constantly
making businesses more efficient where
you just need less people. you go to the
airport, you just need less people uh in
in certain areas within the services
because you've got all this new
technology that's making it easier
easier to check in. So, this is just a a
continuation of the trend and but what
what that used to be the only job. Now,
what's happening is again you're
broadening out the labor market.
>> I wish the airport was a better
experience.
>> Yeah.
>> You know,
>> you got to have clear NTSA.
>> Got to have everything.
>> Yeah, you do.
>> And then pick a line
>> and then gates at the airport so the
plane can actually
>> Yep. I think it's great because
LaGuardia now is gorgeous and I will say
that
>> gorgeous as a stretch it depends you
know I think the be the be uh
>> decent I think it's it's lovely I mean
compared to what I grew up with
>> acceptable
>> oh
>> you know you've been shaped by New York
airports your entire life so that is
gorgeous it's all relative very low
>> I mean I'm like doing plumbing work on
the weekends but I will tell you I am
very impressed with what they did I know
that you know you're not but
>> no it's good it's an improvement I'm
with Yeah, but relative to
>> but like fountain different like
patterns.
>> That's not going to get me excited.
>> No,
>> not at all.
>> All right,
>> Nancy, thank you. Appreciate it. Thank
you. Really thoughtful way to talk about
the US economy right now. Bullish on the
outlook. Nancy Lizard there of Piper
Sandler and Lisa there on a gorgeous
airport here in New York City.
>> It's so much better than it was. It was
a dump.
>> Got to work on shopping though, haven't
we? At some of these airports,
>> I think I guess that that's high value
work.
>> That's where it's you want like highend
shops. Is that what you want?
>> Decent restaurants.
>> Oh, decent restaurants. Yeah. Yeah. But
it's better than some places. I mean
should go.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Who?
>> Nope. Okay. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning. They're
still asleep. Brahma with your Bloomberg
brief. Isabelle Lee has more. Hey
Isabelle.
>> Hi John. Nvidia is entering the PC
market with RTX Spark Superchip taking
on Intel and AMD. The new chip will
debut this fall in laptops and desktops
from leading PC brands including Dell
and Lenovo. It will also run Microsoft
Windows for ARM operating system.
Anthropic set to give the European Union
cyber security agency access to Mythos.
This is the extremely advanced AI tool.
Access to Mythos has been limited since
it was first previewed due to fears it
could fall into the hands of cyber
criminals. And the New York Knicks will
meet the San Antonio Spurs in the NBA
Finals, a rematch of 1999. The Spurs are
looking to return to the title for the
sixth time, while the Knicks are seeking
their first championship in 53 years.
Game one is Wednesday in Texas. That's
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Dream final for the NBA. Isabelle, thank
you. Appreciate it. Thank you for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Noah Weisberger of BCA Research on the
market shift from returning cash to
spending it. The conversation up next.
You look at where energy prices are
right now. And I'm amazed too because
when we sat here in April, it didn't
seem like this was going to be the case.
If we got to June and we were still in
this problem, it's a very narrow market.
The earnings are being drawn very, very
small slice. That's a very exciting
slice and everybody's really excited
about it, but it's not quite as broad
and if you don't get inflation to back
down, you could start seeing some issues
into earnings. That was Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods. The straight has
been closed for 3 months. We've had some
leakage, but all but closed for 3
months. Been tallying the scores for
you. Over the 3 months, oil's up around
30%. Two-year yields are up around 60
basis points. So, you've got an energy
shock, bit of a rate shock. Let's check
in on the growth shock. The S&P over
that period up 10%. The Nasdaq 100 up
21%. High yield spreads are tighter than
are wider. They're tighter by more than
30 basis points over that period.
>> If you think that monetary conditions
have tightened based on the front of the
yield curve, think again. Because if you
look at financial conditions, they've
eased. And so, how do you explain this?
Well, it's earnings. Earnings. Earnings.
Earnings. That's what everybody tells
us. At what point are we looking at an
economy that would have been an
astronomical boom had it not been for
the shock coming from the Middle East?
>> This could have been just a bit of a
dampener to what could have been a
massive boom in this economy and maybe
we'll still get one. I don't know.
Futures right now in the S&P positive by
0.2%. 7 days no losses. Here's day eight
on the NASDAQ up a quarter of 1%. Also,
here's your day and your week ahead.
Lisa talked about earnings. We'll get
earnings through this week. We'll get
tons of data as well later this morning.
PMI and ISM manufacturing data after the
close earnings from HPE. Tomorrow, Jolts
data. Wednesday, results from Broadcom
and Crowd Strike, plus ADP, durable
goods and ISM services. On Thursday,
jobless claims. Friday, the payrolls
report. The payrolls report the headline
act for the outlook for data. Let's talk
about this equity market. Noah
Weisberger of BCA research with a
year-end target for the S&P of 7700. He
writes, "Tech and increasingly the
market is moving from a cash return
regime to a reinvestment regime. Many
investors assumed falling free cash flow
would undermine tech leadership. It has
not." Noah joins us now for more. Noah,
good morning. Good to see you and
welcome back buddy. It's been too long.
>> Too long. Thanks for having me back.
>> Thank you, sir. Thanks for coming into
the studio. That quote I think is going
to resonate with a lot of people. That's
what people expected to happen. What was
different about all of this? What
changed?
>> So, a couple of things. One, I'll start
off in a very wonkish direction, which
is if you look historically at free cash
flow. What you're getting paid for
historically hasn't been like alpha.
It's actually been for sector exposure.
So you've been long tech and short
things that kind of are heavy capex and
lag the cycle. And so as tech shifted
its stripes, people still wanted to own
tech essentially. I think that's what
happened. One, two, I think people want
to invest for growth as a matter of kind
of almost philosophy. Do I want to own
an equity because it gives me back cash
in the form of a dividend and a buyback
or do I want to own an equity because it
gives me access to risk I can't take as
an individual. So in theory that's what
you'd want historically that doesn't
work. Uh but it's working now and it's
working now uh very bigly as they say.
>> Well let's extend this and we can take
the bigly analogy with us as well. What
we're seeing right now is capex
intensity pickup. The prospect for
capital returns has been dampened
somewhat. People are starting to think
about a shift from shrinkage to massive
IPOs and more equity issuance. Are you
saying that's less problematic so long
as we get the growth?
>> I think that's right. So again, we have
we have a couple headwinds. There's IPOs
coming. Maybe there's some political
headwinds after that. And the capex
theme has run pretty hard, but firms are
definitely shifting in that direction.
We see not just in the tech sector, but
across the board uh capex is taking up a
bigger chunk of uh operating cash flow,
buybacks and dividends uh a smaller
chunk. uh but the market seems to be
rewarding that not just in tech but but
in the other sectors as well. So I think
that's a a shift in the market
psychology. Uh I think the other thing
to keep in mind is as capex is
accelerated and you're burning through
free cash flow you actually aren't
seeing uh leverage increase except for
maybe a little bit in the hyperscalers
but across the broader market because
earnings growth to your point earlier
earnings growth earnings growth earnings
growth earnings growth has been so
strong that debt to ibida has fallen for
the market it's fallen for the tech
sector uh and sorry has has has risen I
apologize it's gotten better risen for
the market risen for the tech sector and
down a drop for the hyperscalers but
last point. Uh, revenue growth plus
margin expansion equals recovering ROEs
and ROIC. So, I think that's the what
investors are looking at.
>> You sound bullish. You sound like you're
positive. And then I look at your price
target, which is basically bearish for
the moment that we're in, which is 7,700
at a time when we're looking at the S&P
currently at 75.80. So, you're not
seeing very much upside. Why Why not
8200? Why not get a little more
ambitious here?
>> I'm I'm a complicated guy. Um uh okay.
So our our target is from the beginning
of the year if we launched in February.
Uh $38 of earnings, a 7,700 target. We
haven't touched it yet. Uh we were a
little bit below cons bottom up
consensus when we launched and we're
well below now. So we're like, you know,
340 is where bottoms up are. I think we
want to keep that in sort of in a lock
box a little bit and not market
tomarket. But if we revise up our
numbers to where consensus are, you'd
definitely be 8,000 or a little bit
above that. Uh we're going to keep it
for now. We do see some headwinds in
IPOs. we're going to start to see that
as an issue and political risks beyond
that. But I think our body language is
definitely constructive. We're
overweight. You know, all the techreated
and and AI buildout stuff as it were.
We're underweight defenses. And I think
that's where we want to keep our body
language.
>> If you're bullish on growth and you
continue to see this capex cycle uh
continue to be a virtuous cycle of
sorts, then how problematic would it be
if the Fed actually hiked rates in some
capacity? Because we've been asking
everybody that this morning and the
answer has been not a big deal. So I
would do two things and I I also really
I think I I agree with what you're
saying before about financial about
financial conditions broadly which have
been quite easy in part because of what
you mentioned at the start which is uh a
narrowing in in corporate spreads right
I mean it's not just the Fed itself my
own view if we I always joke around like
I want to talk about the pre-war period
I don't mean like 1920 I mean you know
like February uh in the pre-war period
we were pricing at a bunch of cuts and I
think honestly I'm not sure I could have
justified those cuts and having those
come out off of a really visible
shock that stabilized. And by that, I'm
referring to the oil price itself. I
kind of feel like we've already put in a
lot of that hike risk to stocks. We've
hit we've taken that body blow and now
we're we're fine with it. I think the
risk is almost two-sided from from the
Fed. I mean, I don't think they're going
to be cutting, but I think we've already
priced in a lot of that risk and so I
think we're through that. And the capex
that we're talking about, we see some
slowing in 2027, but that's to meet
current demand. Like one thing we
noticed very strongly from first quarter
earnings. Companies are seeing the
demand today and they're behind. This is
not capex that's going to be leading to
excess capacity. It's capex because
demand is so strong. So I think that's
you always get nervous to say it's
through cycle and it's not sensitive to
rates but it's through cycle and it
doesn't seem so sensitive to rates. Uh
here
>> you said political headwinds can
potentially happen. Are you talking
about political headwinds for the AI
space for these hyperscalers? Whether it
comes for because people don't want data
centers in their backyard or because
they might be taking individuals jobs.
>> I think yeah, both of those I would put
in that in that camp at probably more
after the midterms and into the next
presidential cycle. Uh so I think that's
a little bit further out, but those
would be two of them. I mean, one of the
things that we wrote about uh a couple
weeks ago has been this long trend
higher in in margins, which has been
incredibly powerful uh in the long term.
term and then in the very near term like
if I think uh referencing back to your
question before like where have we been
wrong or why aren't we bullish enough we
were kind of moderate on margin
expansion for 2026 and that's just been
amazing in part because revenue growth
has been amazing and these companies
have operating leverage but if we think
of some of the drivers of margins and
like the competitive landscape in the US
over the last 30 years so big picture
hats on a lot of those things are things
that if I were to be a populist I'd take
a hard look at uh and not just uh
building in my own backyard for data
centers but things like the corporate
tax rate, uh, comp competition policy
and so on. Uh, and so I would would put
those all on on the whiteboard for 2028.
>> Noah, good to catch up. Let's do this
again soon. Thank you, sir. Absolutely.
Thank you very much, buddy. Noah
Weisberger there of BCA Research. If
you're just joining us, welcome. Check
our crew this morning, Brent and WTI.
Just moments ago, a bit of a break at 90
on WTI at 89. What we do know is that
Iran had a call with Japan and now
you're getting some headlines from that
call. Yeah, the president is posting on
Telegram about this call and saying that
Iran will ensure that Japanese ships,
their passage of those ships via the
straight of Hermoose with greater ease,
meaning basically they're going to allow
Japanese ships to pass through. This
would be a very big win for this
administration because Japan is a key
ally. Japan is one of those countries,
huge energy importer. They have been
struggling. I am curious to know though,
is Japan willing to pay a fee and has
that become an issue for this White
House? We don't know. We need more
details. That's an important question,
but some encouraging signs at least.
>> Yeah. And a question the market doesn't
really care about because right now the
market is saying if you got some sort of
passage of ships, at least for now, but
you're right. What terms were agreed
upon? And who else is going to come up
with a bespoke deal? Is this what we
want? One bespoke deal after another
with specific nations directly with
Iran.
>> Have we got another month of this?
Maybe. We've had three.
>> You mean? Yeah. I can tell you some
reasons why not.
>> If it's up to the regime, we'll have
this until the midterm elections. Yeah.
I think I think we could park this one.
>> Coming up on the program tomorrow, we'll
catch up with Ted Modensson of Bed,
Monica Denzo of JP Morgan, Neil Data of
Ren Mack, and Osen Quad of Wells Fargo
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Looking forward to covering a
week full of economic data with you.
This was Bloomberg Surveillance.